A magistrate court in Embu has summoned the OCS Embu police station to explain why a suspect was not presented to the court within 24hours as stipulated by law.  Elvis Fundi, who is facing assault charges, complained that he was held at the court cells the whole day on Monday and was not presented before a magistrate.  Senior Principal Magistrate Henry Nyakweba ordered that the OCS appears in court to explain why the suspect was not produced within the stipulated period.  "Let the officer in charge come and explain to this court why he was held beyond 24 hours," Nyakweba ordered.  Former OCS freed after paying Sh200,000 fine for abuse of office  Oparanya: Here is why regional economic blocs are dying  Oparanya: Here is why regional economic blocs are dying  Haji recommends suspension of two senior officers over deaths of Embu brothers Fundi faced charges of assault, causing bodily harm on October 11, 2021, at Lexo Bar and Restaurant in Embu town.  He allegedly hit a reveller with a beer bottle on his forehead and mouth.  Fundi denied the charges, and the court granted him a bond of Sh10,000, a surety of a similar amount or cash bail of Sh5,000.  At the same court, a woman accused police of denying her the right to see her baby for two days.  Caroline Murugi faced charges of malicious damage to property allegedly committed on November 8, 2021, around 8.00 am at Kagumoni, Gaturi, Embu County.  She is said to have damaged a TV set, DVD player and homemade amplifier, all valued at Sh16,500.  "I was assaulted by the complainant, who is my uncle, and police have denied me access to my baby," said Murugi.  Murugi was released on a free bond.  The case will be heard on November 30, 2021.   Afisa Kortini: Aliyekuwa OCS Makueni ashtakiwa madai ya kuchukua hongo na matumizi mabaya ya ofisi  Mwili wa mfanyikazi wa shamba la maua umepatikana  Washukiwa saba wa genge 86 Battalion walinaswa na polisi By Collins Kweyu | 5 hours ago By Stephen Nzioka | 17 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 1 day ago By Muriithi Mugo | 1 day ago