The parliament buildings during the Annual National Prayer Breakfast at the Parliament buildings, Nairobi. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  Stadiums, jobs in sky wanted down here like yesterday  Who are we? Senators! What do we want? Stadiums! When do we want them? Now!  Of course, they didn't chorus it out like this, which begs the question, why not?  No, they don't want bigger spaces for their shouting matches. Just like you and your neighbours, they are wondering where Jubilee took all the international stadiums it had promised.  Bunge Chronicles: Zimbabwe MPs take lessons from Kenya’s waheshimiwa  Bunge Chronicles: It's that season again as MPs skip sittings to confuse voters  Petition to limit MPs' terms gets on their nerves  Bunge Chronicles: Wannabe Major and his Captain lead battle for jobless youth   No, I hate to disappoint again, no mention of the laptops or the one million jobs for the youth.  Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot requested a statement from the Labour and Social Welfare committee–senators have no sports committee, perhaps explaining why they always look dull–on the status of what he termed 'stadias'.  The gist of his request was that the Sports ministry indicate the location of all government stadiums. Good question.  He also wanted them to explain if they meet international standards and the status of their construction. More pertinent was why some places had them and others didn't.  It would have made more sense if Cheruiyot and his colleagues shouted just to see if that method would force Jubilee to deliver on the stadiums. The rest of us have vainly tried everything else: ask kindly, badmouth the government, act unbothered. Nothing works!  But senators prefer to conduct themselves with decorum, pursuing official channels that never amount to anything.  Amina Mohamed, the waziri for Sports, was to appear before the Labour Committee on Thursday to clarify whether she wants FKF boss Nick Mwendwa out of a job and perhaps explain why the stadiums were built in the skies–they are definitely not on earth.  Ambassador Amina was absent and is thus expected to appear next week to explain the situation. Perhaps the stadiums were built underground and we just have to scratch the surface to reveal them. Who knows?  It isn't like Jubilee hasn't built any stadiums. They have. The problem is they didn't make them as they promised–nine international stadiums.   During that Tuesday sitting, Super Senator Johnson Sakaja pointed out that stadiums don't automatically become international just because you "write international on their names".  He said that such amenities must meet stringent standards to be considered fit to host guys from abroad.   He essentially said that something does not become something else just because you call it that other thing, in case you are wondering what he meant.  Still lost? It's the same case with our wahesh. They call themselves honourable. They now also insist to be addressed as distinguished. I knew you would get it.  Moving on, Sakaja, who chairs the Labour committee–why doesn't Senate have a Sports committee?–requested two weeks because of the seriousness of the broken promise which many senators said affected the youth, mostly.  May they ask the questions every Kenyan youth wants answered. Who are we? Youth! What do we want? Stadiums! And jobs!  By Caroline Chebet | 5 hours ago By Jackline Inyanji | 6 hours ago By James Omoro | 6 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 10 hours ago