Lecturers at Moi University’s School of Medicine have suspended operations over delayed payment of enhanced allowances that have accumulated to over Sh50 million.  The dons, who are also doctors at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH) Eldoret, also decried lack of promotions, understaffing and non-remittance of statutory and third party deductions.  The lecturers, who vowed to stay away until their demands are met in full, also argued that doctors working at the College of Health Sciences had been excluded from the clinical allowances since 2017.  Through their union, Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union (KMPDU), the lecturers who began their strike on Sunday midnight, said that despite continuous engagements with the Moi University management and other relevant stakeholders, the management had neglected their concerns.      No end in sight for varsity’s cash crisis  Strike at your own peril, Egerton University boss tells lecturers  Special Report: How Moi University found itself in a financial crisis   Auditor's verdict: With mounting debts, Moi University faces bleak future  The strike comes after the lapse of a two-week notice issued to the university management by the union.  “The KMPDU signed a CBA with the government on a return-to-work formula following the 2016 strike, providing the doctors with enhanced clinical and risk allowances. The money was released and all the other universities have paid their staff... We are wondering why our university claims it has not received the money,” said Dr Kamonzi Mulei, the KMPDU North Rift branch secretary.  Dr Mulei claimed that the Treasury had approved Sh98 million for Moi University doctors/ lecturers’ enhanced allowances, but the money was never paid prompting them to call for a strike in 2018/2019.  A court reconciliation process has been pending in court since 2019.   Girl in Kakamega fights forced marriage by father as she is set to join Moi University  The year 2019 saw shocking murders for love  Moi University student Ivy Wangeci's murder suspect Naftali Kinuthia speaks to the court By Betty Njeru | 1 hour ago By Jacob Ng'etich and Roselyne Obala | 2 hours ago By Andrew Kipkemboi  | 2 hours ago By Sirajurahman Abdullahi and Fred Kagonye | 3 hours ago