Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia (centre) presents a Sh147.5 million bursary cheque to be disbursed to 35,349 learners in 45 wards. [James Munyeki, Standard]  Bright but needy students in the county will now access Sh147.5 million from the bursary kitty to continue with their education.  Speaking yesterday in Ol Kalou town while disbursing the funds, Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia said for the first time, beneficiaries had been identified through public participation.  “Members of society who knew each other’s needs authorised allocations. No more boardroom deals will be tolerated as has happened in the past,” he said.  The amount is expected to benefit a total of 35,349 learners in secondary schools, tertiary colleges, youth polytechnics and special boarding primary schools.  Nyandarua County wooing investors to save Lake Ol’ Bolossat from drying up  Court orders Governor Francis Kimemia to pay three sacked officials Sh25m  Kimemia denies interfering in affairs of assembly  Kimemia lifts the lid on Deep State and its influence in polls In the last four years, a total of 588.15 million has been disbursed to 115,578 learners. In the last financial year, Sh121 million was disbursed.  The disbursement comes in the wake of increased efforts to enhance access, retention and completion rates in schools across the county.  A milk feeding programme for 23,000 learners in Early Childhood Development Education (ECDE) centres is already underway, with priority given to youth to ferry milk to schools using motorbikes. While urging for strengthened guidance and counselling in schools, Kimemia said child labour and habitual absenteeism were among factors that continue to endanger the future of schoolchildren.   Viongozi wa matabaka mbalimbali wazuru makao ya Rais Daniel Moi ili kuifariji familia yake  Nyandarua Governor Kimemia crowned as Kikuyu elder, vows to spearhead greater prosperity  Chaos in counties: MPs committee summons Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia By George Njunge | 1 day ago By James Munyeki | 1 day ago By Collins Kweyu | 1 day ago By Nderitu Gichure | 2 days ago Celebrities: Why we are venturing into politics