Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavi after a church service at St Jude Catholic Church, Huruma, Eldoret. [Christopher Kipsang, Standard]  Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi has raised concern over the use of school buses by politicians to ferry supporters to their events.  Castigating the vice that has now become a norm, Mudavadi said the move is against the Ministry of Education’s directive that requires the buses to be only used by students for school activities.  Addressing the media in Eldoret, the Amani party leader wondered what would happen should those buses be involved in accidents while ferrying people other than students.    Willy Mutunga: Ruto is a rich man who cuts an image of political hustler    Prepare for the fight of your life, Kalonzo tells Wanjigi   Raila promises free education to university  Why 'selfnomics' sounds better than Railanomics, Rutonomics “Should the buses be involved in accidents, and we pray it doesn’t happen, will the schools call upon the parents to raise money in buying new ones again?” he posed.  Mudavadi has now called on teachers to desist from hiring out the buses for political events as well as other not school-related activities.  “We have seen double standards in this country. Prof George Magoha for instance directed that school buses should not be used for private functions but politicians are doing the exact opposite and such politicians are not questioned,” said Mudavadi.  In political events held by both the Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga, schools buses have been spotted at the venues, with no students on board.  Last week during Raila’s tour of Central Kenya region, buses from Nyanza region were spotted at the venues of the events.  “Another thing schools should take note of before hiring out buses to politicians is the issue of insurance. In case of injuries, will the insurance companies cover the cost to the victims who are not students authorised to board them?” he posed.  Speaking at St Jude Catholic Church in Huruma, Eldoret, Mudavadi called on the Education CS George Magoha to pick up the matter with schools to help bring to an end the vice.  Mudavadi took his campaigns to the North Rift Region where he cautioned voters to choose leaders wisely in the 2022 elections.   “Elect leaders that you can trust, those who can stand for truth and will dedicate their time to service delivery,” said Mudavadi.  He added that since the country has over the past years suffered various challenges that have been made worse by the Covid-19 pandemic, the electorate should now focus on electing the right leaders who will save the country from further loss.  “The level of unemployment keeps rising every single day and the education sector has witnessed a lot of confusion. These are serious challenges that need to be addressed,” said Mudavadi.  The ANC leader said the country needs a clear roadmap so that there is clarity in handling issues facing various sectors of the government including the challenges facing agriculture and the independence of constitutional institutions in the country. As campaigns towards the next general election continue, Mudavadi urged leaders to embrace peaceful campaigns and base their messages on policies and agendas they have for the public.   Musalia: Don't use school buses for political activity  Tension still high in Tot, Elgeyo Marakwet county following recent bandit attack that left four dead  DP Ruto witnesses Waiguru-Ngirici supremacy war By Anthony Gitonga | 2 hours ago By Sirajurahman Abdullahi | 4 hours ago By Eric Abuga | 5 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 7 hours ago