The government has launched Sh1.2 billion water projects in various parts of Nyandarua County.  The 40 projects under the National Irrigation Authority would benefit some 4,000 families.  According to Water Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki, they intend to fun desilting colonial dams, drilling boreholes, establishing irrigation schemes and digging water pans across the county.  The projects aim to improve agribusiness and provide clean drinking water to thousands of households in the county, considered one of the country's food baskets.  “This is part of a long-lasting solution to water problems in the county. It is one of the counties deemed to be developed, but this is not the case. That is why we have set aside the funds to end this problem once and for all,” she said.  Step up efforts to bail out drought-hit families  Drought stricken livestock dying in their hundreds  Pastoralist MPs demand immediate action to save people and animals  We’ll pay more in future if we fail to fund pro-climate actions today Ms Kariuki noted that once the projects are complete, farmers will be trained on irrigation and agribusiness.  “Our officers will engage farmers on how to make use of the waters for farming. It is the high time they stopped relying on old methods of farming,” she said.  The CS spoke after touring several water projects in Ol Kalou Constituency.  She launched a Sh29.7 million project to desilt the Githunguri Cascading Earth Dam in Rurii ward, which targets 66 households and with the potential to irrigate 66 acres of land.  She also commissioned Kianduba Borehole, which is being implemented at Sh10.6 million and the Theuri borehole irrigation water project in Kaimbaga ward at Sh12.3 million and targets 300 households.  The cabinet secretary also commissioned the Kagaa Community borehole in Karau ward, which targets about 500 boreholes, and inspected the Kagaa Irrigation borehole, where she directed the contractor to finish the works by the end of December this year.  Ms Kariuki urged residents not to politicize the projects.  “We should differentiate politics from development. We want our people to benefit from the works of the government that they elected. We will serve all Kenyans the same way,” she said.  jmunyeki@standardmedia.co.ke         Drought in Mandera: Famiiies facing starvation in Mandera with hundreds of livestock dead  Improving Farming: Government invests in irrigation water projects in Embu County  Drought Mitigation: Pastoralists in Turkana call for intervention, they say drought is looming By Lydiah Nyawira | 8 hours ago By Jane Mugambi | 1 day ago By Boniface Gikandi | 1 day ago By Boniface Gikandi | 2 days ago