Major General Mohammed Badi Director-General Nairobi Metropolitan Services speaking during the launch of the Nairobi Circular Economy. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  Nairobi residents and traders will start paying for county services digitally starting next month.  The Nairobi Metropolitan Service and the Kenya Revenue Authority on Friday rolled out an integrated collection system.  The new system dubbed Nairobi Revenue System (NRS) will enable residents and business people to easily pay market fees, rents for county houses, bus parking fees, land rates, and public health certification fees, among other services.  It has been developed by NMS in collaboration with KRA and the Nairobi County government.  Uncertainty over Badi fate six months to the expiry of NMS’s term  Nairobi wins excellence award for HIV/Aids care  The making of Nairobi city from marsh land to Metropolis  2021 Nostalgia Street: When Nairobi truly was city in the sun   “We have documented all county business processes and registered customers with a total of Sh1 billion collected during the initial roll-out phase,” said NMS Director General Mohamed Badi.  He said revenue collection has been hindered by multiple standalone systems, posing various challenges on accountability, security and stability.  “The existing data to support service delivery and revenue collection is incomplete, outdated and in some cases lack data credibility or is unavailable.  “This has created service delivery gaps to the citizenry further fueled by shortfalls in revenue collection,” said Badi.  KRA Commissioner-General Githii Mburu said the system will help net businesses within Nairobi in bid to expand the revenue base as they will be monitoring the payments.  “We have focused on ensuring Nairobi has a credible revenue collection system as well as establishing credible data to determine who are owners of properties and as well people doing businesses in Nairobi,” said Mr Mburu.  The officials said they will ensure sustainable capacity building and training for the system users across the institutions.   NMS carry out another trial run at the Green Park bus terminus to assess the level of preparedness  NMS ikishirikiana na ofisi ya msemaji wa serikali yazindua rasmi utoaji wa chanjo ya Korona, Nairobi  Birth of NMS: Thursday marks one year since NMS inception which now runs key functions in Nairobi By Caroline Chebet | 5 hours ago By Jackline Inyanji | 6 hours ago By James Omoro | 6 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 10 hours ago