Police have scaled up surveillance following a suspected terror attack in Kampala, Uganda.  Three people died and dozens others were injured when terrorists detonated explosives in the town.    The attack came barely three days after a police officer in Nairobi arrested a terror suspect who had attempted to bribe him.  The suspect, a Somali national, allegedly approached a police officer on patrol at Lang’ata shopping centre, and inquired about a popular joint on Lang’ata Road.  Twin blasts in Uganda capital kill two, injure dozens  Wanted: DCI offers Sh10m bounty for five suspected terrorists  Keeping our restaurant business afloat in a pandemic  Overcoming collective blindness: Lessons from 9/11 terror attack “The suspect sought to know the day of the week when the club hosts the largest number of patrons. The police officer was puzzled by the questions from the suspect who posed as a civilian seeking general information,” the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) said on Twitter.  When the officer became reluctant, the suspect offered a reward of Sh180,000 in exchange for the information. The officer became suspicious and arrested the man. On being searched, the suspect was found with Sh156,000.  And following the events in Uganda, police in Kenya called for calm assuring wananchi of their safety.  “We have activated our security installations across the country with heightened security within our towns and borders,” said police spokesman Bruno Shiosho, who urged civilians to be wary of any suspicious-looking persons in their neighbourhoods.  The attack in Kampala came a week after the UK issued an alert, warning of a possible terror attack.  In a statement last Thursday, Britain advised its nationals to be extremely vigilant when visiting crowded public places like hotels, transport hubs, restaurants and bars.  “Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terror attack,” read the statement.     Nana Gecaga reading news: TSC transfers non-local teachers from Northern Kenya  Non-local teachers evacuated by from Northern Kenya after terror attacks  Garissa terror attack leaves four pupils dead, Several others injured By Grace Ng'ang'a | 2 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 2 hours ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 3 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 3 hours ago