Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed has thrown Kenya's dying football into a spin. On Thursday, Amina disbanded Football Kenya Federation (FKF) and appointed a caretaker committee. The CS made the decision after reports of misappropriation of funds, which has set the game back and lowered standards.  For quite some time, there has been a hue and cry over the poor performance of our national team, Harambee Stars. There have also been queries surrounding the use of monies from the government and other sponsors, including Fifa. There are claims of clandestine management of the federation.  FKF has been in the eye of a storm on how it spent Sh244 million on the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations finals. Last week, the Senate Committee on Labour and Social Welfare asked the federation to explain allegations that another Sh11 million was paid directly to FKF president Nick Mwendwa’s account without requisite documentation.  Mwendwa allayed fears that the CS was gearing up to disband FKF. But committee chair Senator Johnson Sakaja told the House that the Sports Act is clear that the Registrar must give them a reasonable opportunity to be heard.  The committee then invited CS Amina to appear before it on Thursday. She requested one week to prepare adequately. Sakaja turned down the request and asked the House Committee to summon Amina to appear before it on Tuesday.  Inspection of FKF must continue, Nairobi Senator Sakaja says  Ringera-led team has its work cut out putting FKF house in order  Stakeholders advocate for gender equality in women’s football in Western region  Nick Mwendwa arrested In a strange twist, the CS disbanded FKF. We now hope she will honour the summons and share the Inspection Report, which might save Kenya from Fifa's wrath.  Yesterday, Fifa responded to issues raised by the Sports ministry and expressed their willingness to hold a meeting with FKF and Sports ministry to address concerns both sides may have and, to decide on the way forward for the sake of Kenyan football. But those culpable of siphoning football monies must face the law.  This is the right direction, for, a solution will prevent our budding football talents from wasting away. While responding to concerns on Harambee Stars’ dismal show, Mwendwa sadly said Kenyan football cannot prosper since there is no talent.  Kenya is endowed with a huge pool of talent at the grassroots level – from primary and secondary schools to clubs. Our football is not all about Harambee Stars. Let’s just fix issues bedevilling the game's management.       FKF Premier League Results: Gor Mahia 1-0 Sofapaka, Tusker FC 1-0 Kariobangi Sharks  Tusker loses 1-0 to Posta Rangers in a FKF premier league match played at Ruaraka Grounds  FKF CUP: Bandari wabanduliwa nje ya dimba hilo baada ya kuduwazwa na Equity Fc katika robo fainali By Editorial | 1 day ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 3 days ago