President Uhuru Kenyatta in Edinburgh, Scotland, during a business meeting with the Scottish Africa Business Association on Wednesday.  President Uhuru Kenyatta has urged Scottish investors to take advantage of the improving business environment in Kenya to invest more in the country and the African continent.  At the same time, the President thanked the investors for the growing number of Scottish businesses in Kenya saying the Kenyan Government was committed to continue supporting their investments to thrive.  President Kenyatta spoke on Wednesday in Edinburgh, Scotland during a business meeting with the Scottish Africa Business Association (SABA). SABA is a membership organization of Scottish companies with commercial interests in Africa.  During the roundtable meeting hosted by Diageo, one of the world's top beverage makers and a major investor in East African Breweries (EABL), the President and the Scottish captains of industry explored new investment opportunities in agriculture, water, renewable energy and fisheries among other sectors.  With funds short, Africans weigh green energy switch and fossil fuel cash  Climate change: Kenya should do much more  Kenya to lead resource mobilization efforts for climate change mitigation in Africa  Jitters over planned Jubilee-ODM joint candidates in 2022 polls The Scottish business leaders assured President Kenyatta of their commitment to continue supporting Kenya's socio-economic transformation through win-win economic partnerships.  Besides Diageo, other leading Scottish organizations with active interests in Kenya include the James Hutton Institute of the Robert Gordon University in Aberdeen which is involved in groundbreaking seed potato research, and The City of Glasgow College which is supporting Bandari College to become a continental maritime centre of excellence.  President Kenyatta, who is in Scotland to attend the ongoing 26th UN Climate Change Conference (COP26), was accompanied to the business meeting by State House Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategy and Policy Ruth Kagia and Kenya's envoy to the UK Amb Manoah Esipisu.   HOUSE OF CARDS: Is the State secretly engineering plot to have a compromise candidate succeed Uhuru?  Impeaching Matiang'i: Guns trained at CS Fred Matiang'i with leaders divided over impeachment plans  President Suluhu will on Tuesday begin a two-day State visit on the invitation of President Kenyatta By Moses Nyamori | 30 minutes ago By Winfrey Owino | 30 minutes ago By Willis Oketch | 30 minutes ago By Joackim Bwana | 30 minutes ago