Sexual Harassment complaint form [Courtesy]  Detectives in Kilungu sub-County in Makueni are looking for a nurse who is accused of sexually molesting female patients under his care.  In the latest incident, he is said to have attempted to defile a Form Four student.  According to Kilungu sub-County Police Commander Antony Nderitu, the incident happened on September 23.  However, the police said the hospital and the school didn’t report the case until the girl’s mother made a formal complaint on October 22.  Makueni reverend allegedly rapes 18-year-old girl in his car  Puzzle over failed Kenyan nurses tests  Makueni: Cancer patients can now access drugs, treatment   You have humiliated us in public, nurses tell Kagwe   “The DCI is tracking down the suspect who is on run. He went into hiding after the hospital sacked him,” said Nderitu.  The suspect had worked in the hospital for two and half years.  “I was called on September 24 from the school and informed that my daughter was sick. I went to school the following day and found that she had been admitted to one of the female wards,” the girl’s mother said.  “My daughter told me what happened, and that the nurse had even given her his phone number after his mission had aborted.”   She said the school hurriedly wrote a leave-out chit for the girl to seek further medical care elsewhere.    “When we went back home, I was forced to take her to a psychologist as the incident traumatised her,” she said.  The nurse allegedly attempted to remove the girl’s underwear and stopped when she screamed.  The hospital’s administrator wrote an apology letter to the school over the incident.  “The hospital’s administration acknowledges your letter dated September 29, 2021.  “The management is very sorry for the incident,” the letter reads in part.  It was after the school wrote a letter to the hospital that the accused was dismissed.  Efforts to get a response from the school and the hospital management over the incident were unsuccessful.   Death in a Cell: 29-year-old student allegedly committed suicide while in police custody in Makueni  Afisa Kortini: Aliyekuwa OCS Makueni ashtakiwa madai ya kuchukua hongo na matumizi mabaya ya ofisi  Nurses Strike: Mombasa medics call off strike after union agreed with the county government By Paul Ogemba | 12 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 15 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 16 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 1 day ago