Protesters carry a banner and national flags as they march against the Sudanese military's recent seizure of power and ousting of the civilian government in Sudan on October 30, 2021. [Reuters]  Mobile phone lines inside Sudan were cut on Wednesday before the latest round of planned protests in the capital Khartoum against a military takeover, a Reuters witness said.  Mobile internet services in Sudan have also been suspended since the takeover on October 25 despite judicial orders to restore them. This has complicated efforts by pro-democracy groups to stage a campaign of anti-military rallies, strikes and civil disobedience.  Local resistance committees across Khartoum called for protests on main roads and in neighbourhoods on Wednesday to demand a full handover to civilian authorities and call for coup leaders to be tried in court.  As on previous protest days, security forces closed bridges across the River Nile connecting Khartoum with its twin cities of Khartoum North and Omdurman.  US, Kenya push call for peace in Sudan and Ethiopia  Families of couple found dead in Umoja house yet to agree on postmortem date  Sudanese security forces use tear gas to disperse anti-coup protests- witnesses  Couple die by suicide three months after wedding  The Sudanese Congress Party, which was part of a civilian coalition that had shared power with the military before the coup, said one of its leaders had been arrested following a raid on his house.  The coup ended a transitional partnership between the military and civilian groups that helped topple autocrat Omar al-Bashir in 2019.  On Saturday, opposition groups held the latest of three days of mass rallies against the military that have been joined by hundreds of thousands of people. Medics reported that seven people were killed by gunfire of tear gas as security forces moved to disperse the demonstrations.   Wanajeshi 74 warejea nchini, walikuwa wanalinda salama Dafur, Sudan  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death  Kifo Sudan Kusini: Familia moja Likuyani, Kakamega yaomboleza baada ya mpendwa wao kuuawa na waasi By Jael Mboga | 5 hours ago By Reuters | 8 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 16 hours ago By Malkhadir Muhumed | 1 day ago