Senator Sakaja wants to become the fourth Governor of the capital city. [File, Standard]  Senator Johnson Sakaja has dismissed proposals to have Nairobi County under the national government as he revealed his plans if elected to the city’s topmost seat in 2022 polls.  This comes in the backdrop of a proposal to have the capital’s county government managed by the national government and the subsequent transfer of four functions to the Nairobi Metropolitan Service (NMS).  In an interview on Citizen TV, Sakaja argued that by dissolving Nairobi County, about 10 per cent of Kenyans would be denied a chance to enjoy devolution.  “Nairobi county must remain as is although some adjustments need to be done here and there. Why would you deny some Kenyans devolution?” he posed a question.  Weighing options  Support polls agency to deliver credible elections  Onyonka, other Kisii aspirants defect to ODM  Koome to UDA: I’m not leaving election preparedness committee! Sakaja says that to solve the issue of corruption and poor service delivery, he plans to segment the city to ease the tracking of accountability from relevant authorities.  “I have plans to split the city into four regions North, South, East and West. It’s the only way to make it work. That way if there is a complaint in a particular area, we know who to talk to,” Sakaja added.  “The Constitution envisages a special relationship between Nairobi County and the National Government. That is why Nairobi must work. We will reduce land rates to an affordable price and make people pay willingly by improving our services,” he added.  When taking a swipe at national politics, Sakaja opined that the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) would have a great impact on the outcome of next year’s polls.  “Whoever OKA will support in 2022 General Election will win. OKA’s decision will play a major role in the outcome of these polls,” Sakaja said.  Sakaja, the incumbent Senator of Nairobi plans to run for the gubernatorial seat. He has since shifted his political allegiance from the Jubilee Party and now supports Musalia Mudavadi’s presidential bid under the Amani National Congress (ANC).  If cleared to contest, Sakaja will face off with the incumbent Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi who has also declared his interest in the Governor’s seat.   Has Kenya gotten devolution, right? Is it time for an adjustment or Should the country soldier on?  Reigning champion Carl Tundo registers 4th win of the season after victory in Thika Rally  Wazalendo Hockey team ready for the Africa cup of club champions in Ghana By Erastus M Mulwa | 25 minutes ago By Allan Mungai | 25 minutes ago By Ndungu Gachane | 25 minutes ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 6 hours ago Court saves leafy Karen suburb from unwelcome structures