Covid-19: The only viable option we have is prevention through observance of prescribed health protocols. [Benjamin Sakwa, Standard]  The Covid-19 cloud hanging over humanity is far from dissipating. Since it was discovered in the Wuhan Province of China in December 2019, the coronavirus has shaken the world to its core.  Within weeks of discovery, the virus jumped borders and caused global devastation in terms of loss of human lives and massive disruptions in our routines. Life has never been the same since. To date, more than 261 million people have been infected with the virus while 5.2 million have succumbed.  These gloomy statistics should harden our collective resolve to fight the pandemic by simply following health protocols that entail wearing face masks, sanitising, keeping social distance and getting vaccinated, among other measures.  Unfortunately, Kenyans have thrown caution to the wind perhaps because, in recent weeks, the infection rate in the country has gone below 1 per cent.  Covid-19: ICU cases drop to five as 11 test positive in last 24 hours  Omicron: There will be no lockdowns over Covid variant - PS Mochache  Government increases surveillance against new Covid-19 variant  Omicron Variant: What is going on across the globe Omicron, a new strain of Covid-19 that seems to be more transmissible has been found in South Africa, Botswana, Hong Kong, Israel, Belgium, United Kingdom and Italy.  Realistically, it is just a matter of time before it finds its way into Kenya. Our experience with Covid-19 in which hospitals lacked oxygen, sufficient bed capacity and requisite medication shows how poorly equipped we are to deal with this disease.  The only viable option we have is prevention through observance of prescribed health protocols. More importantly, the government and the political class should take the threat seriously to avoid a relapse.  The Madaraka Day celebrations held in Kisumu in May this year led to a spike in Covid-19 cases in the region. We cannot afford a repeat of the harrowing experiences.  It behoves the police to enforce the presidential directive that put a moratorium on political gatherings. Omicron would spread like wildfire if it penetrates our huge political rallies where social distancing and wearing of face masks are alien ideas.   Ministry of Health receives 180,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine as a donation from Gov't of Greece  HEALTH WATCH: How Covid-19 misinformation worldwide has created panic by misleading masses  KEMRI makes a breakthrough in the fight against Covid-19 by developing a Virus Transport Media (VTM) By Editorial | 23 hours ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 3 days ago By Editorial | 3 days ago