Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia commissioned the construction of Sh2.2 billion Mto Mwagodi-Mbale-Wundanyi-Bura road on Monday.  The upgrading to bitumen standard of the 54km road is expected be completed after three years.  “The area produces horticulture and dairy products. The road will serve as an important link between the farmers and the market. It will reduce drastically the transportation time of farm produce to respective markets,” said Mr Macharia.  “The main agricultural activities which support the livelihood are horticulture and dairy farming. On average 20 tonnes of assorted fresh horticultural produce and milk are collected from the farmers and transported to urban centres of Voi and Mombasa on a daily basis,” he added.  Macharia, who was accompanied by Principal Secretary Paul Maringa, said the road serves Mwatate and Wundanyi constituencies and is the largest project being undertaken by the national government in the area.  Expressway set to open for motorists in April next year  Poor roads deny mothers healthcare services in West Pokot  Cows using footbridges is proof we have wide roads and narrow minds  Andrew Kiptoon: Moi-era roads minister laid to rest in Baringo Others who accompanied the CS were MPs Jones Mlolwa (Voi), Andrew Mwadime (Mwatate) and County Secretary Rodah Onyancha among others.  Addressing the residents, Macharia said the road will not only attract investors but also improve tourism activities in Taita Hills.  “The area where the road passes is within the Taita-Taveta tourist circuit. The Taita Hills offer good topography for tourists who are in love with nature,” he said.  “The road will also serve many key learning institutions and provide access to many health facilities,” the CS added. He disclosed that a Chinese company, Stecol Corporation, will construct the road.  Wiper party secretary-general Danson Mwashako said the Jubilee government had undertaken many development projects across the country.  He claimed that the previous regimes had neglected roads among other infrastructural projects in Taita Taveta. “The constituency only has a one-kilometre tarmac road from Mbengonyi to Wundanyi that was completed in the 1970s,” he said.  mnyamwezi@standardmedia.co.ke       Kenyans in the transport sector in Mombasa decry the increase of fuel prices  Miraa traders devise self control mechanisms to tame speeding by drivers transporting Miraa  Where are Jack Ma's donations? | Ministry of transport confirms that 21 packages are missing By Nehemiah Okwembah | 7 hours ago By Benard Sanga | 9 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 1 day ago By Joackim Bwana | 1 day ago