President Uhuru Kenyatta has condoled with the family of Jubilee Secretary General and Cabinet Secretary Raphael Tuju following the death of their mother Mama Mary Odiyo Tuju.  Mama Mary, 87, passed away last night while undergoing treatment at a Nairobi hospital.  In his message of comfort to the family, the President eulogised Mama Mary as a hard-working community leader and elder who greatly valued and supported education as the foundation of life.  “Mama Mary was a known and highly respected community leader who believed in the virtues and benefits of education. Her belief that education was the foundation of life was the inspiration that led many from her community to pursue education, and become productive members of society,” the President said.  President Uhuru Kenyatta has condoled with the family of Jubilee Secretary General and Cabinet Secretary Raphael Tuju following the death of their mother Mama Mary Odiyo Tuju.  Read more: https://t.co/K6ezmCo0Pe  Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju loses mother  President Uhuru fires Kenya Prisons boss Wycliffe Ogallo   Extreme ways Kenyans express themselves in politics  With about 270 days left to rule, Uhuru's options are wearing thin The Head of State described Mama Mary as a strong matriach who raised a successful family and prayed to God to grant the Tuju family solace and fortitude at this difficult period of mourning.  “We will forever be grateful for the work she has done for our nation and for raising up a strong family which has continued to contribute to the socioeconomic transformation of our country.  “I pray that God will shed his love and peace in your hearts as you mourn the demise of your beloved mother. I assure you of my prayers and support as you come to terms with the death of your family matriarch,” President Kenyatta comforted the family.   What is ailing football in Kenya? Stakeholders discuss challenges, solutions, and the game's future  Drought situation in Wajir reaches alarming levels with thousands of animals succumbing to hunger  DP Ruto pledges to finalize the BIG 4 Agenda which he says stalled after Raila's pact with Uhuru By Philip Muasya | 2 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 2 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 3 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 4 hours ago