IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati and Interior PS Dr Karanja Kibicho. [File, Standard]  The Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has written to Interior PS Karanja Kibicho announcing its withdrawal from the 2022 election preparedness team.  In a statement dated Monday, IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati cited the need for independence as the main reason the commission has opted to leave the National Multi-Sectoral Consultative Forum (NMSCF) on Election Preparedness and the Technical Working Committee (TWC) on of the NMSCF on Election Preparedness.  “After consultations and in-depth critical appraisal of the Terms of Reference of NMSCF on Election Preparedness and TWC, the Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission would wish to withdraw from further engagements in the activities of the NMSCF and TWC,” said the statement in parts.  Chebukati said a number of the Terms of Reference of the NMSCF and TWC have a net effect of violating the Constitution by purporting to direct the Commission on how to discharge its mandate contrary to provisions of the Constitution.  Government’s role in delivery of credible polls  Support polls agency to deliver credible elections  Stop early 2022 campaigns, Chebukati warns politicians  Petitioner contests IEBC's Kiems kit tender award to dutch firm The IEBC boss also expressed fear that NMSCF as currently constituted has pushed IEBC to the periphery while giving the centre stage to other institutions which he said was a clear violation of the Constitution.   The NMSCF on Election Preparedness brings together top officials from the Interior Ministry led by CS Fred Matiang’i, ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru, and Attorney General Paul Kariuki, Judiciary led by Chief Justice Martha Koome and other government agencies.  He added that heavy involvement of the institutions will probably erode public confidence in the poll body which has the mandate to conduct a free and fair election.  He said as it is; the NMSCF has not only infringed on the independence of the commission but also assumed the role of other institutions, notably the Parliamentary Departmental Committees especially the Justice and Legal Affairs of the National Assembly.  The statement comes after a protest letter by the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) to IEBC over the inclusion of Cabinet Secretaries Fred Matiang'i (Interior) and Joe Mucheru (ICT) into the multi-agency team planning the 2022 polls.  UDA wanted Matiang’i and Mucheru removed from the team since they have openly campaigned for ODM leader Raila Odinga's candidature.  Through its Secretary-General Veronica Maina, UDA also wants the electoral body to stop the CSs from meddling in the election preparations and instead take charge of the exercise as per the law.  Maina said it was wrong and dangerous for IEBC to allow CS Matiang'i to dictate to it how to prepare for the election when it is their constitutional mandate to carry out elections.  UDA is also on record writing to CJ Koome over her involvement in the activities of the Technical Working Committee of the NMSCF on Election Preparedness.  The Chief Justice, however, said contrary to UDA’s claims, it is the Judiciary Committee on Election (JCE) that is involved in the Technical Working Committee’s activities and not herself.  “The Chief Justice does not sit in the Technical Working Committee as implied in your letter. She leads the Multi-Sectoral Consultative Forum on Election Preparedness by didn’t of seniority,” she said in a letter written on her behalf by Judiciary Chief of Staff Rose Macharia.   ODM’s attempt to oust Chebukati from IEBC elicits mixed reactions | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  IEBC launches 2020-2024 Strategic Plan ahead of the 2022 general elections  Uteuzi wa kidato cha kwanza, IEBC imezindua ruwaza na mikakati ya miaka mitano ijayo | MBIU YA KTN By Ndung’u Gachane and Jane Mugambi | 15 hours ago By Edward Kosut | 15 hours ago By Andrew Kipkemboi  | 15 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich and Erastus Mulwa | 17 hours ago