Scenes at Soko Mjinga, Kimabu where hundreds of Catholics await the arrival of Archbishop Philip Anyolo [George Njunge, Standard]  Philip Subira Anyolo is today making his trip to Nairobi, where he will be installed as the new Archbishop.  Pope Francis named Anyolo as Nairobi Archbishop on October 28, with the announcement being made on behalf of the Vatican by Apostolic Nuncio to Kenya and South Sudan, Archbishop Bert Van Megen.  “I have the honour and pleasure to inform you that Pope Francis has appointed the Most Reverend Philip Anyolo, presently Archbishop of Kisumu as Archbishop of Nairobi,” said Megen.  Hundreds of Catholics await the arrival of Archbishop Philip Anyolo at Soko Mjinga, Kiambu [George Njunge, Standard]  Philip Anyolo named new head of Nairobi archdiocese  Philip Anyolo replaces Cardinal Njue as Nairobi Archbishop  Pope Francis appoints Father Michael Odiwa as Bishop of Homa Bay  Atheist in Kenya supports controversial Reproductive Health Bill 2019 Archbishop Anyolo now succeeds retired Archbishop Emeritus John Cardinal Njue.  Auxiliary Bishop David Kamau had been the Apostolic Administrator of the Archdiocese of Nairobi Since Cardinal Njue stepped down in January.  Anyolo’s appointment was officially published in L’Osservatore Romano, and the same was communicated to the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops (KCCB).  Archbishop Philip Anyolo arrives at Soko Mjinga, Kiambu, and is received by hundreds of Christians and clergy [George Njunge, Standard]  Born on May 18, 1956 in Bungoma County, Anyolo’s interest in priesthood was influenced by priests were Noel McHenry, Tom Smith and Philip Sulumeti.  In 1983, he was ordained as a priest for the Catholic Diocese of Eldoret and was later appointed Bishop of Kericho on December 6, 1995, by Pope John Paul II. He was consecrated as Bishop of Kericho on February 3, 1996.  In 2002, Anyolo was appointed Apostolic Administrator, Diocese of Homa Bay after Right Reverend Linus Okok Okwach resigned.   Archbishop Philip Anyolo addresses the congregants at Soko Mjinga, Kiambu [George Njunge, Standard]  He was then made Bishop Diocese of Homa Bay March 22, 2003.  In 2018, Anyolo was appointed Archbishop of Kisumu Diocese and installed the next year.   Catholics from Mt Carmel parish Ngarariga await the arrival of Archbishop Anyolo [George Njunge, Standard]  A red carpet has been rolled out in and outside the biggest church in Kiambu, in preparation for Archbishop Anyolo’s arrival [Fidelis Kabunyi, Standard]  ..........  More photos to follow:   ...   PALM SUNDAY: How Mombasa faithfuls marked the start of the Holy Week  PALM SUNDAY: Archbishop Philip Anyolo leads mass as Catholics follow from home  Catholic Bishops condemn corruption allegations in the country By Patrick Vidija | 51 minutes ago By Erik Kirschbaum | 2 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 3 hours ago By Robert Amalemba | 4 hours ago Prison break: Kamiti terror convict Joseph Juma Odhiambo unknown in Mumias