Ann Kananu is sworn in as the third Nairobi County Governor at KICC, Nairobi. [Denish Ochieng, Standard]     Ann Kananu Mwenda, Nairobi’s newly-sworn in governor, says she will be ruthless in her attempts to ensure the safety and security of survivors of sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV).  Kananu revisited the SGBV Bill that she recently signed into law, aimed at accelerating efforts towards elimination of all gender-based violence in Nairobi County and ensure that perpetrators are punished.  “I commit to working with the National Government and other stakeholders to support the empowerment of women and girls in the county through the provision of gender-based recovery centres and establishment of safe houses in the 17 sub-counties,” she stated while delivering her first speech as Nairobi Governor on Tuesday.  Ann Kananu: The security toughie who became Nairobi governor  Ann Kananu sworn in, becomes third Nairobi governor  Ann Kananu’s swearing-in pushed to next week Tuesday   Ann Kananu set to be sworn in as city's third governor this week The county chief also promised to see through budgetary allocations for the facilities, and witness protection programmes within the county.  In April this year, the Government raised concerns over the increased cases of gender-based violence.  Public Service and Gender Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia said at the end of 2020, some 5,009 gender-based violence cases were reported compared to the same period in 2019 with 1,411 cases.  In May 2020, President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the National Crime Research Centre to probe the rising cases of GBV and teenage pregnancies in the country.  Kananu’s In-tray  Kananu, who becomes Nairobi’s first female governor, says she is aware “the responsibility bestowed upon me is no mean fete”.  Top of her agenda will be to first appoint a deputy governor, who will serve for the remainder of her nine-month tenure.  She is also expected to appoint the county executive committee as stated in article 179 (2) of the Constitution, to be approved by the County Assembly.  Kananu has been holding the Nairobi Governor position in an acting capacity since December 2020 following the impeachment of former governor Mike Sonko.      Sonko Trial: Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko fails to appear before anti-graft court  Sonko Case: Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko due in court over assault charges  Former Governor Mike Sonko detained at DCI headquarters; he is to face robbery and assault charges By Winfrey Owino | 3 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 3 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 5 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 8 hours ago