Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i has expressed government's commitment to see more women participate in the next General Election.  The CS said women had been encouraged to contest in the polls without harassment and intimidation to help achieve the two-third gender balance.  Dr Matiang'i added that aspiring women politicians need to be assisted whenever necessary even by their male counterparts.  “We really want women to participate in the forthcoming elections without any hindrance, and if they want any support, they should be accorded,” Matiang'i said.  The CS asked male contestants to give women an easy time by not intimidating, harassing, or lording over them. “Let women feel free to stand and contest and we are willing to offer protection to them. We are committed to this and we shall effect it,” Matiang'i said.  Women in politics: Trailblazers curving path for younger sisters  DP allies fault Matiang’i support for Raila  I’ll not resign, CS Matiang’i tells DP Ruto allies  Matiang’i’s directive to administrators on female aspirants He added that the government wants the 2022 polls to be the most peaceful in the country's history.  He said they had instructions from President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure the polls are smooth. “Everyone is free to sell his agenda to the people in any part of this country without fear or intimidation. We shall be firm to make sure peace reigns during the election period,” he said.  Interior CS Fred Matiang'i at the Kenya School of Government. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  The CS spoke at Ndeiya police post in Ndeiya, which he elevated to a sub-county and installed a new DC.  Matiang'i told wananchi that having a sub-county meant if there were to be police recruitment, it would be done locally. “We shall have all government offices closer to you, and government drives like KDF recruitment, police, and many others will be happening here. You will be getting your identity cards and other government services here. You shall not be going to get these services in Limuru again,” he said.  To this effect, Matiang'i said anyone who is on the said government land should immediately vacate to allow construction of government offices. “This land, according to our inventory, is a whole 15 acres and people have hived off almost everything. I direct that Governor Nyoro fence off the whole fifteen acres and the county commissioner effect the orders,” he said.  Interior PS Karanja Kibicho, who had accompanied Matiang'i, said the President had instructed them to work, and that they would not bow because of noise by busybodies. Kibicho asked Matiang'i to stay put in the course.  “Those ganging up to fight shall be defeated. Our mandate is to deliver to Kenyans, kaa ngumu tufanye kazi. (Stay put we work),” Kibicho advised Matiangi.  Limuru MP who was the host said that as the chairman of the Parliamentary Select Committee on Security said his committee will be making other locations in Limuru like Bibirioni and Rironi to take government services closer to the people. “We have never seen this kind of job in Limuru by Uhuru's government. We have serious road networks here and now locations and a sub-county,” Mwathi said.  Matiangi was accompanied by a host of MPs in the security committee, Kiambu Governor James Nyoro, Kiambu county commissioner Wilson Wanyanga, leader of majority Kiambu county Gideon Gachara, former Ndeiya MCA Munga Mbuiyu and all the chiefs and sub-chief in Limuru.   CS Fred Matiang'i says the Government is committed to addressing the insecurity in Laikipia County  Impeaching Matiang'i: Guns trained at CS Fred Matiang'i with leaders divided over impeachment plans  Je, mpango wa wabunge kumg'atua Waziri Fred Matiang'i utafaulu? By Boniface Gikandi | 4 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi | 9 hours ago By George Njunge | 1 day ago By Winfrey Owino | 2 days ago