Prof Calestous Juma died on December 15, 2017, at age 64. [Chrispen Sechere, Standard]  The second instalment of the global seminar series in honour of top academic Calestous Juma will take place on Monday and Tuesday next week.   Prof Juma was an internationally recognised authority in research and application of science, technology and innovation (STI), especially in developing countries.   This series, organised by the African Centre for Technology Studies (ACTS) and the Calestous Juma Legacy Foundation, are meant to honour and cement his legacy as a global icon in the application of science.   The inaugural seminar was held on August 12 and focused on re-igniting Africa’s industrialisation through innovation. Next week’s seminar will focus on steering science, technology and innovation to achieve sustainable development goals.   Willy Mutunga: Forget Supreme Court; tribunals best for election petitions   Koome not involved in 2022 election plans, UDA told  CBC petition to be heard by judge bench- court directs  Speaker Justin Muturi will not play second fiddle to anyone, youth lobby declares The seminar will showcase best practices in the transformation of agriculture and fisheries sectors through the integration of science, technology and innovation. It will reflect on the lessons learnt in the global pilot programme of the STI for Sustainable Development Goals roadmaps in Africa.  The seminar will also present the findings of a case study on STI pathways on fishing in Lake Victoria basin. There will also be presentations of case studies on STI for SDG roadmaps.  Also to feature are discussions on the role of STI in steering agri-food system transformation and innovation in marine fisheries and its potential for economic empowerment  President Uhuru Kenyatta (right) condoles Prof Calestous Juma's wife Alison (C) and his son Eric at the Holy family Basilica. [Beverlyne Musili, Standard]  ACTS executive director Peter Ogada yesterday told The Standard that he was looking forward to the seminar series.  “Prof Juma promoted this agenda through advanced science, technology, and innovation policies especially in biotechnology, provision of high-level science, technology and conservation of biological diversity,” said Prof Ogada.  He said the seminars will keep Prof Juma's dream alive by creating a platform that will elicit discussions around knowledge and innovation for development.  According to the executive director of Calestous Juma Legacy Foundation, Angela Christiana, the seminars are meant to create awareness on the importance and application of STI for development.  “We plan to continue participating and hosting similar seminars to enhance expansion of technology and innovation knowledge," she said.  The seminar series will focus on Prof Juma’s previous work and will be held once every three months culminating in the ACTS-CJLF conference in 2022.  Prof Juma died on December 15, 2017, at age 64. He was a professor at the Harvard Kennedy School in the US and director of the Science, Technology, and Globalisation Project at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs.   Climate Change: Kiambu county holds harvest festival, an initiative to beef up food security  Covid and Justice: Resolution of cases in courts has dropped by 53 percent  Christine Ongare bows out of Tokyo Olympics after losing to Irish Magno By Fidelis Kabunyi | 3 hours ago By Kamore Maina | 6 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 7 hours ago By Patrick Muinde | 8 hours ago