The National Land Commission has said it will compensate only residents with title deeds in the Mama Ngina University expansion plan.  NLC commissioner Kazungu Kambi said that most of the properties around the university are small but the commission will ensure legitimate owners are settled.  “If you are going to be compensated for your land it must have a title deed. So it is only those with title deeds that will be compensated. We shall also ensure those who leave here are settled,” Kambi said in Mutomo on Saturday.  He was accompanied by National Assembly speaker Justin Muturi.  He dismissed claims that the government will possess the land forcibly and maintained the landowners will be compensated.   NLC resumes probe on land allocation at settlement scheme  Court quashes NLC decision on land to Ruto  Puzzle of a land case yet to be solved 117 years on  Puzzle of a land case yet to be solved 117 years on “Majority have said they do not want cash for their land but have asked to be relocated. The NLC has factored all that in and if you have all the necessary documents, you will be compensated accordingly,” Kambi said.  Over 160 residents of Mutomo are set to be relocated to pave way for the expansion of the Mama Ngina University College, a constituent college of Kenyatta University.  The commission on behalf of the Ministry of Education gave notice that the national government intends to acquire additional parcels of land for the expansion of the university.  The plan requires significant re-zoning of the area targeted for construction.  The university's administration and tuition blocks were constructed at a cost of Sh400 million. All students are currently accommodated off-campus.  When the government announced in 2015 about the establishment of the university college, the residents were upbeat saying it will boost the economic status of locals.  They said they were eagerly waiting the construction of the proposed public university to start since they believed it would create employment opportunities and improve their living standards.  The university, a constituent college of Kenyatta university, will have four campuses with the main one at Mutomo town.  Area MP Moses Kuria said then that the residents had accepted a proposal to collapse both Mutomo and Ruburi primary schools where two campuses will be built.  In addition, Kiganjo and Ng'enda polytechnics will also be elevated to university status.  The MP said the university had agreed to adopt and nurture four youth-based cottage industries to be supported by the school of engineering, besides offering academic services.    DPP Noordin Haji files petition with JSC seeking removal of Deputy CJ Philomena Mwilu  Six years of Mohammed Swazuri at National Land Commission | THE BIG STORY  The end of Mohammed Swazuri at National Land Commission | THE BIG STORY By James Munyeki | 1 hour ago By James Munyeki | 20 hours ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 21 hours ago By Jane Mugambi | 1 day ago