The two suspects were masquerading as streetkids in Manyatta slums after escaping from Kapsoya Police Station. [Courtesy]  Police in Kisumu County have arrested two suspects of robbery with violence who had escaped from custody in Kapsoya Police Station, Uasin Gishu County.  Elvis Odhiambo and Muhammad Adan were masquerading as street boys in Manyatta slums before residents tipped members of the community policing.  They were detained at Kosawo hall following claims that they were terror suspects who had escaped from Kamiti Maximum Security Prison.  Residents say the suspects have been in the area for the last two days, pretending to be street boys.  The prison facelift angle in the Kamiti terror convicts’ escape  President Uhuru fires Kenya Prisons boss Wycliffe Ogallo   Prison Break: How terrorists escaped from Kamiti Maximum Security Prison   Seven wardens arrested after convicted terrorists escape Kamiti maximum prison A number of street boys also questioned them and alerted the chief’s office at Kosawo who then alerted police about the suspicious boys.  Francis Aluko, a member of the community policing at Manyatta, who was among the people who rounded up the suspects, said that they had received reports of suspicious individuals.  “We have a strong network in the community and when we received reports of suspicious people roaming the estate, we launched a manhunt for them,” said Aluko.  At around 7am, the suspects were found carrying piles of plastic wastes and polythene and were briefly detained by residents before being taken into police custody.  While confirming the incident, Kisumu Central OCPD James Ngetich described the matter as sensitive and said Eldoret detectives were searching for the suspects after their escape four days ago.  “It is true two suspects have been arrested but they are not terror suspects. They are robbery with violence suspects,” said Ngetich.  The arrest of the duo comes at a time when security agencies across the country have launched a search for three terror suspects who escaped from Kamiti Maximum prison on Monday night.   NEW RED-ZONE? Spike in counties with low numbers with Kisumu registering new infections of Covid-19  Azma ya Vihiga Queens: Wanatarajia kuicharaza Kisumu Starlets, mechi itachezwa kesho ugani Moi  Crowds Nightmare: Kisumu residents disregard Covid-19 protocols during Madaraka day celebrations By Edwin Nyarangi | 11 hours ago By James Omoro | 17 hours ago By Eric Abuga | 2 days ago By James Omoro | 2 days ago