Protesters carry a banner and national flags as they march against the Sudanese military's recent seizure of power. [Reuters]  More than ten people have died in Sudan activists' who called for an escalation of protests against last month's military coup.  This was a day after the deadliest security crack-down to date on demonstrators demanding the restoration of a civilian government.  According to reports by BBC, doctors in Sudan say 14 people have been shot dead by security forces as thousands took to the streets to protest against the military takeover.  Activists had called for mass demonstrations to mark the day when a civilian was supposed to assume the leadership of the governing Sovereign Council.  Ole Gunnar breaks silence on Man United future after their 4-1 defeat to Watford  Messi scores maiden Ligue 1 goal as 10-man PSG stretch lead    Watford demolish Manchester United 4-1  Palace extend unbeaten run in six-goal thriller at Burnley The man who led last month's coup, General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, dismissed the government, arrested dozens of politicians and named himself the head of a new Sovereign Council.  There is growing evidence of just how brutal the Sudanese security forces have been.  Doctors in the capital Khartoum say tear gas has been fired inside hospital buildings and soldiers have prevented some of the wounded from being treated.  Many arrests have taken place in neighbourhoods where the electricity had been switched off.  General Burhan and his colleagues who seized power are determined to stop anti-military protests from gaining any momentum.  They are also undoing much of the progress that had been achieved after Omar al-Bashir was toppled.  His allies are taking back some power and returning the country to the kind of dictatorship that the vast majority of Sudanese hoped had been dismantled forever.   Persons living with visual impairment to benefit from ongoing donation of digital smart blind sticks  Coast leaders raise questions on the manner in which DCI is conducting probe on possible tax evaders  IEBC warning: IEBC calls on politicians to refrain from early campaigns  By Reuters | 1 day ago By Winfrey Owino | 3 days ago By Malkhadir Muhumed | 4 days ago By Brian Okoth | 4 days ago Escaped convicts sat under trees and told us they were charcoal men