The 70-year-old man allegedly stabbed his 46-year-old wife to death. [Muriithi Mugo, Standard]  Police have launched investigations into an incident where a 70-year-old man in Thau village, Embu County, allegedly stabbed and killed his 46-year-old wife in a family dispute.  Reports indicate that Luka Njue disagreed with his wife, Nancy Muthoni, over Sh6,000 which proceeded he got after selling a goat.  Police say they arrived just in time to rescue the septuagenarian from the hands of an angry mob.  While confirming the incident, Benjamin Muhia, Embu East Sub-County Police Commander said the suspect had been arrested and would be arraigned on murder charges.  Officers in Kianjokoma brothers deaths out on bail  Why men who hide money from their wives have 'a big problem'  Embu health workers accuse governor of neglect, want action  Embu Court acquits two murder suspects "Investigations done so far indicate that the suspect became angry after his wife took off with Sh6000 he had received after selling a goat. The lady is said to have gone on a drinking spree before Njagi caught up with her and stabbed her with a knife on the head," Muhia said.  According to Muhia, the area chief arrested the suspect and locked him at Runyenjes police station before the police arrived. He adds the incident took place a few minutes past midday.  Faith Karimi, a resident of Thau village said Ms Njagi had indicated she was unwell and felt sleepy before the incident.  "She told me she had not slept the whole night after a family disagreement with the husband. We found her seated outside and after passing the crime scene, we heard screams and on turning back we found her lying on the ground and the husband had disappeared," said Karimi.  Police say they arrived just in time to rescue the septuagenarian from the hands of an angry mob. [Muriithi Mugo, Standard]  Another resident said the couple have been having family issues and there was a case due for adjudication this week.  The deceased’s body has been moved to Embu Level 5 Teaching and Referral Hospital Mortuary awaiting autopsy.   Utata wa Ardhi Embu: Viongozi walaani ubomoaji huku maelfu wakiachwa bila makao  Nabbed for Sodomy: Police in Embu hold paedophile suspect after he allegedly defiled nephew aged 12  BBI in Embu County: Bill subjected to public participation, 3 counties have approved and 1 declined By Boniface Gikandi | 4 hours ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 4 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi | 9 hours ago By George Njunge | 14 hours ago