William Kamau, his wife Jane Njoki (pictured) and their two daughters died in a road accident on Monday, November 1, 2021. [Courtesy]  A man, his wife and their two adult daughters died on Monday evening after their vehicle collided head-on with a matatu at Kamirithu area in Limuru, Kiambu County.  William Kamau, 77, his spouse Jane Njoki, 69, their daughters Rhoda Njeri, 40, and Evelyn Waithera, 32, were heading to Nakuru for a burial, when the accident occurred.  Waithera, a lecturer at the Kenya Medical Training College in Nairobi, was the one driving during the journey that ended tragically around 8pm.  Kamau’s adult nephew, who was a passenger, sustained serious injuries and was taken to the PCEA Kikuyu Hospital.  The sisters who died alongside their parents in Limuru crash  Don't give Mungiki space  Limuru's fatal attraction and its gift to vice presidents  Man to be arraigned for vandalising Safaricom’s Sh2 million property The five were en route to Nakuru from Nairobi. They were to attend the burial of Waithera’s in-law in Nakuru.  Joyce Mwaniki, the victims’ relative, said they received news of the family’s tragedy with shock.  “Kamau, who was ailing, and his spouse Njoki relocated to Nairobi from Murang’a last year so that he could get uninterrupted medical attention,” said Mwaniki, the couple’s niece.  The couple’s other daughter, Njeri, who also died in the crash, was an employee of a private hospital in Murang’a Town.  The survivor, a youthful man, is a university student, family said.  The victims’ relatives back in Kiharu, Murang’a County are now planning the burial of the four, whose bodies were moved to the Montezuma Monalisa Funeral Home in Kabati, Murang’a.  The family of Kamau, a former employee of Kenya Power, is survived by three sons, Anthony Irungu, Muturi Kamau and Maina Kamau.   N.A Speaker Justin Muturi made Mt. Kenya Spokesman at the Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine in Murang’a  Spika Muturi atawazwa huko Murang'a, Naibu Rais Willam Ruto afunga safari hadi Pwani | MBIU WIKENDI  Maandamano Nanderema, Murang'a wakwamia BBI, Maisha ya Uzeeni Tanzania | MBIU YA KTN (Sehemu ya 2) By Boniface Gikandi | 4 hours ago By George Njunge | 7 hours ago By George Njunge | 1 day ago By Winfrey Owino | 2 days ago