Police in Trans Nzoia County have arrested a 28-year-old man for allegedly killing his 56-year-old mother after she declined to give him money to purchase alcohol.  The suspect, Robin Oyori Osuma reportedly dragged his mother, Mrs Agnes Chepkorir Kosgei, from her bedroom to the toilet where he stabbed her in the chest several times using a knife.  The Monday night incident took place in Siyoi village Kwanza sub-County.  According to Joseph Wekesa, a village elder, the suspect often demands money from his mother and beats her up whenever she declines to give him.  22-year-old woman pleads for help as suspect who maimed her roams in village  ‘Jealous’ 20-year-old man kills girlfriend, 27, in bar  Murdered BBC staffer had kept off Addis on safety fears  Chief dies in his office “The suspect also went ahead and sold two sheep on Saturday and Sunday. His mother reported the matter to the police on Monday morning,” said Wekesa.  On Monday night at around 8 pm, the suspect demanded cash from his mother.  “When his mother refused, the suspect proceeded to the kitchen, returned with a knife, dragged her from the bedroom to the toilet, and stabbed her before telling one of their neighbours what he had done and warning him not to enter their house,” the village elder said.  Wekesa with other neighbours went to the home and found the door to the house partially opened. They entered and found the suspect whom they apprehended and took him to the nearby Maili Saba Police Station.  Police officers visited the scene and found the woman's body lying in a pool of blood.  The knife he used to stab her was next to the body.   Kwanza OCPD James Odera said the suspect was arrested and is now in police custody.   Bodaboda rider detained over the brutal stabbing of two teenagers that left one of them dead  Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death By Kennedy Gachuhi | 5 hours ago By Nikko Tanui | 6 hours ago By Martin Ndiema | 7 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 12 hours ago How robbers in four-hour siege at bank evaded police