Days after a petitioner sought to stop him from campaigning to be ODM presidential flag bearer, businessman Jimi Wanjigi’s quest received a major boost after officials from 12 counties endorsed his candidature.  At the same time, the officials demanded that the party’s National Elections Board reopens the contest for the presidential ticket following its suspension in February.  “We receive Wanjigi into our regions to campaign after locking him out for a while. He has been using the wrong delegates. Today we are happy that he will use the set structures in the party, and we as chairmen, will welcome him to campaign among our delegates,” said Embu County chairman Moses Wamuru.  Those who spoke on behalf of the group include Mr Wamuru (Embu chairperson and Upper Eastern coordinator), the Reverend John Njenga (Nyandarua chairperson) and Jacob Mwanza (chairperson, Machakos).    Governor Kinyanjui condemns violence against DP Ruto in Kondele  Jitters over plan for Jubilee-ODM joint candidates in 2022 elections  Ida calls for consensus in ODM primaries to avoid violence  Shahbal jolts Joho's succession matrix While thanking the leaders for endorsing him, he also reiterated his demands to the elections board to re-open the presidential ticket contest.  “The presidential contest must be reopened now. We also expect a transparent process down to the MCA level. It must be free and fair. We are in this to make sure the party is stronger, not weaker. It is our right as members to demand free, fair and transparent nominations for all positions,” said Mr Wanjigi.  Others at the meeting were county chair persons from Marsabit, Kiambu, Makueni, Tharaka Nithi, Machakos, Nyandarua, Makueni, Isiolo, Murang’a, Kirinyaga, Meru and Embu.    Pulpit Politics: ODM leader Raila Odinga welcomes move to ban politicians speaking in church  Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens  Wawaniaji wa nafasi ya Ugavana kaunti ya Mombasa kupitia chama cha ODM wajiandaa By Harold Odhiambo and Edwin Nyarangi | 7 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 8 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 11 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 13 hours ago