The vehicle that ferried Ann Kananu to her swearing-in ceremony at the KICC on November 16, 2021. [Denish Ochieng, Standard]  Ann Kananu has been sworn in as the third Nairobi governor.  She was sworn in at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre, replacing Mike Sonko who was impeached last year.  Kananu has been acting governor since December 2020 following the ouster of former governor Sonko.    Anne Kananu: What you should expect from me as Nairobi Governor  Ann Kananu: The security toughie who became Nairobi governor   Kananu to be sworn in as Nairobi governor on Tuesday  Promiscuity: Nairobi girls take the biscuit Her path to succeeding Sonko was cleared on November 9 after the Supreme Court dismissed an application by the latter challenging her appointment.   Ann Kananu takes the oath of office at KICC as the third Governor of the County of Nairobi. [Denish Ochieng, Standard]  In January 2020, Sonko nominated her as his deputy and forwarded her name to the County Assembly for vetting.  However, before the assembly could vet her, a Nairobi resident challenged the nomination which led to a court order stopping the assembly from vetting and approving her nomination.  Ann Kananu inspects a guard of honour mounted by the inspectorate officers from the county. [Denish Ochieng, Standard]  Kananu remained in the cold until December 18 last year when Sonko was impeached and the court lifted the order that barred the assembly from vetting and approving her nomination.  She was subsequently vetted, approved, and sworn-in as deputy governor but as she was preparing to take over as governor, Sonko moved to the High Court and obtained orders stopping the oath.  High Court dismissed the application and set the stage for Kananu’s swearing-in as governor.  The judges ruled it was Sonko to blame for his mistake when he nominated Kananu only to purport to revoke the nomination when he had already been impeached.  They also dismissed Sonko's petition challenging his impeachment, ruling that both the County Assembly and the Senate complied with all statutory provisions for impeaching a governor.   Drought situation in Wajir reaches alarming levels with thousands of animals succumbing to hunger  DP Ruto pledges to finalize the BIG 4 Agenda which he says stalled after Raila's pact with Uhuru  DP Ruto pledges to finalize the BIG 4 Agenda which he says stalled after Raila's pact with President By James Wanzala | 5 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 1 day ago By Kamore Maina | 1 day ago By Mireri Junior | 2 days ago