Confusion has marred changes in Homa Bay County ODM coordinating committee.  The list of changes circulated media alleged that Homa Bay County Woman Rep Gladys Wanga had been ousted from her position as the county coordinating committee.  But the party elections board chairperson Catherine Muma said ODM had not received any list on the changes.  “What I know is that the list is fake. We have not made any changes in Homa Bay county coordinating committee,” Muma said.    Ruto: Uhuru and Raila don't care about the poor  Five students linked to dorm fires in Homa Bay arrested  Be orderly while receiving my Sh2m donation, Ruto tells Homa Bay residents  Jimi Wanjigi intensifies quest to win ODM presidential ticket In the changes, Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma is listed as the committee chairperson.  The vice-chairperson is Homa Bay Deputy Governor Hamiton Orata.  Suba North MP Millie Odhiambo is the secretary.  The position of Organizing Secretary went to Kabondo Kasipul MP Even Obara, Ndhiwa MP Martin Owino (treasurer), Women League chairperson (Nearah Oketch) and Youth Leader slot went to Kevin Odhiambo.  Homa Bay Energy Executive Beatrice Ogola took the County special interest representative post.  The committee members include Governor Cyprian Awiti, Woman Rep Gladys Wanga, Senator Moses Kajwang, former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, Suba South MP John Mbadi, County Secretary Isaiah Ogwe, Rangwe MP Lilian Gogo, KUPPET Secretary General Akelo Misori and Moline Ngala.  ODM chairman in Suba North Constituency Narkiso Tuko said the changes were done by ODM officials in eight constituencies in the county through harmonization.  “Elections board gave us the mandate to undertake harmonisation. We sat down as chairmen and officials from all the eight constituencies and prepared the new list of officials,” Tuko said.  Muma’s statement means Wanga was still the chairperson while Orata remains vice-chairperson.  ODM was expected to undertake grassroots elections but the elections were postponed indefinitely.  However, there are some vacant positions in the county co-ordinating committee. The vacancies resulted from the deaths and resignation of office holders.  Those supporting the changes say they were arrived at through consensus and that Homa Bay became the 46th county to hold ODM polls.  The ODM officials are crucial in shaping campaigns for various seats in Homa Bay which is seen as the party base.  Mbadi, Wanga and Kidero are among ODM members expected to battle for the Homa Bay gubernatorial seat as Awiti is serving his second and last term.  Leaders allied to the trio have been fighting for the control of ODM in the lakeside county even as they eye Party Leader Raila Odinga’s blessings to vie for the gubernatorial seat.  In an interview with the Standard, Kidero said the new list of co-ordinating committee members and officials was arrived at through consensus adding that the leaders would help drive ODM agenda in the county.   Pulpit Politics: ODM leader Raila Odinga welcomes move to ban politicians speaking in church  Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens  Wawaniaji wa nafasi ya Ugavana kaunti ya Mombasa kupitia chama cha ODM wajiandaa By Philip Muasya | 5 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 17 hours ago By Stephen Nzioka | 17 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 20 hours ago