A section of Upper Hill, Nairobi. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  Property owners in Nairobi will from January start paying higher rates after City Hall yesterday gazetted a new valuation roll.  Acting County Secretary and Head of Public Service Jairus Musumba said the new rates will be based on 0.115 per cent of the current value of undeveloped land and will apply on residential, commercial and agricultural plots.  “It is notified for information of the general public that land rates levied by the Nairobi City County Government for the year 2022 shall become due on January 1, 2022,” said Mr Musumba in a gazette notice.  The changes set the stage for higher payments given that property owners have been paying rates at 25 per cent of the unimproved site value based on the 1980 valuation roll.  Court saves leafy Karen suburb from unwelcome structures  'Standard' journalist attacked as city land dispute turns violent  Man loses claim over Sh52 million property  Netherlands qualify for World Cup with late win over Norway The county government is seeking to cash in on the appreciation of land in the capital over the past four decades, partly fuelled by an increase in demand.  However, City Hall has moved to cushion property owners from a steep rise in the payments to balance between affordability and increased own-source revenue.  It said where the new rates will be found to be more than double the current rates, the property owners will pay double their current rates—a move that will be beneficial to those owning properties in areas where land has experienced steep appreciation in value.  But where the new rates will be lower than the current rates, the latter will apply.  A valuation roll is a public legal document that contains information on all rateable property within the boundaries of a county or urban centre.   Ghosts of Marakwet: Village elders conduct rituals to appease spirits of missing kin after landslide  Miche elfu kumi yangólewa Kirisia  Ministry of lands issues new title to KEMRI after Governor Waiguru had declined to handover title By Patrick Alushula | 3 hours ago By Ndiritu Muriithi | 8 hours ago By Patrick Alushula | 1 day ago By Frankline Sunday | 1 day ago