Law Society of Kenya has asked top security officials to help find missing lawyer Hassan Nandwa. [File, Standard]  The Law Society of Kenya (LSK) has issued a 24-hour notice to top government officials, to help in finding missing lawyer Hassan Nandwa.  LSK says failure to help find the legal mind and Elgiva Bwire (his client), who went missing on Thursday, October 28, under unclear circumstances, then the lawyers will move to court.  In a statement dated October 28, the society’s secretary Mercy Wambua called out the Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai and DCI boss George Kinoti to intervene in the matter adding, it was clear that Nandwa’s disappearance was related to his legal career.  “From the above series of events, it is clear that Prof Nandwa was abducted in the course of his professional work. We, therefore, demand his immediate release together with his client “Wambua’s statement read in part.  Keep the criticism coming, says Manchester United boss Solskjaer  Family pleads with State to find lawyer who has disappeared  Solskjaer says Man Utd must come out fighting after Liverpool blow  Solskjaer hits out at 'lies', says players together in the trenches Further, the society’s branch in Nairobi demanded the IG to intervene in the matter and produce the missing lawyer.  Eric Theuri, the branch’s chairman said in another statement that if the IG failed to produce Nandwa in court, then they would file a court application to demand that he be produced in court.  “Advocates should not be forced to be selective in representing clients for fear of jeopardizing their safety. These are actions that constitute a direct violation of the constitutional requirement of access to justice and impede the pursuit of justice,” Theuri said.  Nandwa was reported missing on Friday, October 29, at the Kilimani police station hours after he failed to return home the previous day.  Speaking to the press at the Jamia mosque on Saturday, October 30, Muslim leaders in Nairobi called on the Government to help in finding the missing lawyer.  Nairobi National Muslims Leaders Forum (NAMLEF) chairman Hassan Ole Naado said he was concerned that the police had resulted in profiling and targeting Muslim leaders in the fight against terror.  “The state should investigate this matter and ensure that the constitutional rights of its citizens regardless of their religious background are protected, “Naado said.   Who will take over from Maraga? JSC now considering 13 applicants for the chief justice position  Nafasi Ya Jaji Mkuu: Majina ya watu 13 wanaotafuta kujaza pengo la jaji mkuu yatajwa na JSC  The LSK punches holes into the BBI report over judicial independence By Winfrey Owino | 50 minutes ago By James Omoro | 4 hours ago By Benard Sanga | 4 hours ago By James Omoro | 4 hours ago