Murang'a County Land Secretary Ms Sarah Masaki briefing the media [Boniface Gikandi, Standard]  More than 10,000 residents have registered land succession matters in an initiative between the Murang’a County Government, the Judiciary and the National Land Commission.  The registration period lapsed last Thursday at the Kiria-ini market, where over 1,000 people with various land problems lodged their complaints through a team led by Physical Planning Executive Committee member Sarah Masaki and Chief Officer Josphat Nduati.  The initiative that targets more than 20,000 residents faced with land succession issues was initiated by Governor Mwangi wa Iria. This was after hundreds of petitions lodged in court, some of which have taken decades to conclude.  The governor said many crimes committed in the county originate from land matters. Ms Masaki said the team involved in compiling the land-related complaints include law students at Mount Kenya University, who will analyse the problems registered by residents.  Relief for poor as county and agencies address land disputes  Land disputes, poverty to blame for senseless lynching of the elderly  Mwangi wa Iria meets opinion leaders in his pursuit for presidency in 2022  Push to expand Murang’a municipality splits water companies “We have registered complaints from residents and the majority have lived with unending succession issues, which we shall work towards to resolve through providing legal expertise,” said Masaki.  Samuel Muya, a resident from Kamacharia ward, says he is happy after his documents were finally signed. He said he has been travelling from Nairobi on a monthly basis to have his documents signed by his chief all in vain. “The initiative by Governor Iria is Godsend. Residents have been suffering since they couldn’t afford legal fees charged by lawyers,” said Mr Muya.  Miriam Mwaniki, from Kigumo, recounts how her family has been chasing a title deed at the Murang’a land registry since 2006. “We are happy that Murang’a County Government attorney Mbiyu Kamau has been of help. The family had lost hope of getting the title deeds,” said Ms Mwaniki.      Ibada ya wafu ya vijana wawili waliofariki Murang’a mapema mwezi huu imefanyika mjini thika  A family from Lower Gatanga-Muranga County mourns the mysterious murder of their 3-year-old child  Mbiu ya KTN: Kasisi afumaniwa By Brian Okoth | 1 day ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 1 day ago By Muriithi Mugo | 2 days ago By Jane Mugambi | 2 days ago