Scores of animals found dead after Monday night downpour. [Courtesy]  Four livestock keepers in Chyulu hills, Kajiado losses after a heavy downpour on Monday, November 29 claimed the lives of over 500 livestock.  Speaking to The Standard on Tuesday evening, Daniel Ole Sambu, the program coordinator at Big Life Foundation said that the affected are pastoralists who had recently moved to the area in search of water and pasture.  Some 522 sheep and goats and four cows died in Chyulu hills on Monday night. [Courtesy]  According to him, the heavy downpour caused landslides and flooding in some areas, a phenomenon that led to the death of 522 goats and sheep and four cows.  Ruto, Matiang'i factor shaping Kajiado governship contest  Ten claim neighbours, Lands office grabbed their 497 acres  Kajiado Governor Ole Lenku blames audit queries on former top officials  Moving on: Kianjakoma and Kajiado families’ pain “The downpour started at 7pm on Monday evening and ended on Tuesday at 6am,” he said.  The farmers managed to rescue only 86 out of the almost 600 livestock. [Courtesy]  “The owners are pastoralists who move together with their animals. On the fateful night, only 86 of the livestock were rescued by Big Life Foundation rangers,” Sambu told The Standard.  The farmers woke up to dead animals after a night of heavy downpour. [Courtesy]  Sambu said that the animals died from natural causes and that there was no one to be blamed for the deaths.  Farmers in the area have been advised to move to higher grounds to avert more losses. [Courtesy]  He has urged people in the area to move to higher grounds to avoid further loss to the rains.   Missing 11-year-old girl found dead in Olmaa, Kajiado County, she has been missing since 4th April  Mwili wa msichana aliyetoweka tarehe nne mwezi wa Aprili wapatikana kaunti ya Kajiado  Wakazi Kajiado wahimizwa kula matunda, Ukataji miti Taita Taveta, Yuko wapi Nkatha? | MBIU YA KTN By Irissheel Shanzu | 2 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura | 2 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 1 day ago By Nikko Tanui | 1 day ago