Former Machakos First Lady Lilian Nganga now claims her life is in danger.  Nganga who spoke at a press conference in Nairobi this morning claims she has received death threats from her ex, Governor Alfred Mutua.  “Mr Mutua is overreacting to our separation. Whilst indicated that I wanted to move on with my life, he thought otherwise,” Nganga said.  Nganga further claimed that she had requested her ex to sort their separation in a mature manner, reminding him that they weren’t legally married, but Mutua dismissed her and referred to her as “enemy number 1.”    Kamba community on the right track in succession race, says Wavinya  Alfred Mutua opens up on Boniface Mwangi beef, marital split and State House  2022 campaigns should not derail service delivery, says Alfred Mutua  Pull down video and apologise, Governor Mutua tells Boniface Mwangi “Mutua angrily termed me as his Enemy No 1, and threatened to "crush me to ash, and take away everything I have, and own. He also threatened to harm persons close to me. He stated that he had offers from people to kill persons close to me, and threatened that he might indeed take up the offers to teach some of them a lesson,” the former first lady claimed.  Nganga, in the company of her lawyer Philip Murgor also claims that Mutua has since transferred some of her properties to himself.  The items in question include a car, which she says is registered in her name since 2014, and shares in Ndash Enterprises Limited [a hotel company where they are both partners].   “Mr. Mutua recently and illegally transferred my shares in the Ndash Enterprises LTD (the hotel company) to his sister Ann Mbandi Mutua. Again, a clear act of fraud. At no point did I execute a transfer of my shares or otherwise transfer my shareholding in the company to him, let alone his sister,” she said.   Former Machakos First Lady Lilian Nganga shows documents containing details of some of the transferred properties. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  The couple who parted ways in August this year have not spoken since, Nganga said.   “I am publicly requesting Mr Mutua to immediately return my properties, cease threatening my life and stop his arrogance. He needs to get a life and move on.”  Ng'ang'a wants the Inspector General of Police and Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) to charge Governor Mutua with the “serious crimes he has committed for me and my friends before anything else happens to us.”  “What I have described amounts to a form of GDB (Gender-Based violence) known as psychological and economic violence. Mr Mutua is out to destroy me both psychologically and economically, and he must be stopped by the government. Any form of GBV must be shunned and perpetrators punished heavily”  During an interview with The Standard late last month, Mutua, while disclosing reasons for his separation said: “When you have issues with people you have lived with, let them remain in private space. No one is perfect in this world. Just have a little respect and decorum.”  The couple separated in August, announcing their breakup on social media.  “Winds of change blew my way and two months ago, I decided to end my long-term relationship with Dr Alfred Mutua. We had a good run and I am forever grateful to God he brought us together. We remain friends,” Nganga’s post read on Instagram.  They were together for five years.    One on one with Juliani, a recording and performing artist | Celebrity Chat  Governor Alfred Mutua's message to the Kenyan youth  Governor Alfed Mutua's full speech at the BBI Report launch By Amos Kareithi | 10 minutes ago By Mercy Kahenda | 24 minutes ago By Paul Ogemba | 5 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 13 hours ago