Government Spokesperson Cyrus Oguna has asked Kenyans to report anything suspicious they notice. [Courtesy]  Hours after the bombing in Kampala, Uganda, the state has urged Kenyans to report any suspicious occurrences around them to the nearest police station.  Earlier, the Ugandan police spokesperson said three suicide bombers blew themselves up, causing three more deaths and 33 injuries.  In an advisory to the public, Government spokesperson Cyrus Oguna assured Kenyans that security forces are on high alert, monitoring the country and its borders.  “In line with recent happenings, we assure Kenyan Citizens be vigilant in places of high human traffic. Report any suspicious behaviour, character, movement or unattended parcels to nearest police stations,” Oguna’s advisory read in part.  Museveni identifies 3 terrorists who blew themselves up in Kampala  Officers’ account of jail break isn’t convincing  Terror suspect arrested for attempting to bribe policeman in Nairobi  Wanted: DCI offers Sh10m bounty for five suspected terrorists Three days ago, authorities arrested a Somali national terror suspect for allegedly attempting to bribe a policeman in Nairobi, in exchange for information about a popular joint on Lang’ata Road, ostensibly to plan an attack.  “The suspect sought to know on which day of the week a popular joint on Lang’ata Road hosts the largest number of patrons. The [police] officer was puzzled by the questions from the suspect, who posed as an ordinary civilian seeking general information,” the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) said on Twitter.  Meanwhile, mystery abounds as to the circumstances under which three terror convicts escaped from the country’s most guarded prison (Kamiti Maximum Prison) on Monday morning.  Joseph Juma Odhiambo, Mohamed Abdi Ali Abikar and Musharaf Abdalla Alias Shukri vanished from the prison in what Commissioner General of Police Wycliffe Ogallo described as an “unfortunate incident.”  The Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) has placed a Sh60 million bounty- Sh20 million for each of the three- for any information leading to their arrest.   Cyrus Oguna talks on Government's efforts to eradicate Kenya's desert locust invasion  Msemaji wa serikali Cyrus Oguna kuzuru hospitali ya wagonjwa wa Covid katika eneo la Mwatate  CJ Maraga directs court to prioritize terrorism and drug cases, leaders say youth in remand for long By Grace Ng'ang'a | 2 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 2 hours ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 3 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 3 hours ago