ODM leader Raila Odinga addresses the women delegation at Catholic University, November 18, 2021. [Samson Wire. Standard].  The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has urged politicians to stop early 2022 campaigns, saying it is unlawful.   In a statement sent to media houses on Friday, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati expressed concerns over the early campaigns some of which have turned violent, warning they could upset the political environment in the lead up to the 2022 General Election.  “The Commission has noted with concern sustained campaigns by some political parties and aspirants outside the legally prescribed period. Some of the campaigns have been characterised by blatant acts of violence,” read the statement.  Chebukati told politicians to stop the sustained early campaigns until such a time it will declare the commencement of campaigns.  Petitioner contests IEBC's Kiems kit tender award to dutch firm  There is no ‘deep state’ to decide who becomes the fifth president  Our politicians must trust the process for credible elections  Man seeks 'none of the above' option on 2022 ballot papers The commission said it was within its powers to regulate campaigns through the publication of the Notice of the General Election to mark the commencement of the election period.  According to Chebukati, the commission has developed the General Election timelines that are espoused in the Elections Operations Plan (EOP) with an outline of dates and days for each election activity.  Chebukati urged all stakeholders in the electoral process to maintain a peaceful political environment conducive to secure and credible elections.  Despite the 2022 General Election nine months away, top presidential contenders and various aspirants have been crisscrossing the country to sell their agenda.  Deputy President William Ruto is winding up his four-day tour to Meru, Embu and Tharaka Nithi counties to sell his Bottom-up economic model.  ODM leader Raila Odinga was in Coast for a three-day trip to sell his Azimio La Ummoja before meeting women in Nairobi on Thursday.  Raila addressed a delegation of women who had gathered at Catholic University and will begin another trip to Trans Nzoia County on Saturday to sell his agenda.  One Kenya Alliance (OKA) leader campaigned in Kitengela last weekend.   ODM’s attempt to oust Chebukati from IEBC elicits mixed reactions | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  IEBC launches 2020-2024 Strategic Plan ahead of the 2022 general elections  Uteuzi wa kidato cha kwanza, IEBC imezindua ruwaza na mikakati ya miaka mitano ijayo | MBIU YA KTN By Muriithi Mugo | 35 minutes ago By Phares Mutembei | 15 hours ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 1 day ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 1 day ago Broke Kenyans, campaign season a big threat to economic recovery