The last few months have seen calls for unity of various ethnic communities ahead of the 2022 General Election.  Political parties with regional inclinations are being formed every other week to consolidate ethnic support. Seasoned politicians trying to reinvent themselves are competing with ambitious newcomers for the position of tribal spokespersons/kingpin. Everyone wants a seat at the table. They argue that their tribes need to vote as a bloc in order to secure their political interests and not be left out of the next government.  But here is an unpopular opinion. An ethnic community voting for different candidates should be seen as progress and should be encouraged; that’s if it happens because of a more compelling narrative other than ethnicity, like economic policies.  What we need is a different type of unity; unity around ideologies and policies that are healthy and progressive, unity of purpose beyond ethnic borders. Unity that will bring people from different tribes together and one that will lead people from one tribe to vote for different candidates whose policies they agree with and not just because their tribal chief or negotiator told them.  That’s the unity that will ensure peace during elections because it won’t be driven by politicians shaking hands but by neighbours from different ethnic communities agreeing or disagreeing with each other peacefully because their positions won’t be based on tribe.  No one-party-takes-all voting pattern next year, analysts project  Small parties in a battle to break ‘six piece’ voting in next elections  Your vote can bring change, CS Joe Mucheru tells youth  Plan to register as a voter Unity of an ethnic community for a political purpose is deeply skewed because it is not always your tribesman who has your best interest at heart. This has been demonstrated over and over again but we are still naïve about it.  In fact, the people who are pushing for regional/tribal unity solely for the purpose of an election are most likely doing it for their own interests. They are positioning themselves so that they will be remembered when their ‘Messiahs’ make it to paradise. Politics is the biggest show in Kenya and securing a political seat is the surest way to ‘omoka’. The access to ‘business opportunities’ is unprecedented and that’s why politicians will do almost anything to get power, including concealing themselves behind the veil of ‘uniting our people’.  It has little to do with development, that is why they would rather tell you what they can do after they are voted in rather than pushing for those things to be done now. If the call for unity was legit, then we would see them come together to address corruption, high cost of living, lack of drugs in public hospitals and so on.  Let’s unite but not for the purpose of voting as a bloc or for a candidate from our tribe. Let’s unite rather, around transformational ideas and policies that can truly transform our society.  If ideologies, doctrines of economic policies and political principles will divide Kikuyus, Luos, Kambas, Kalenjins, Luhyas etc., so be it.  People from traditionally opposing tribes may find themselves on the same side of a political ideology and there will be no space for targeted hate and violence.  But we have to ask the question whether Kenyans have a fear of being excluded from government. This is because Raphael Tuju told us in an interview in June 2021 that Kenyans have a legitimate fear of exclusion if their tribe doesn’t get a seat at the table. He went on to say that the fear has merit.  Political representation is a right and that’s why the country is divided into representative units. But in this age of devolution, when resources should reach every part of the country, shouldn’t the concern be on the leaks and corruption that impede development? Shouldn’t we be focusing on strengthening the systems that will ensure that devolution is achieved?  Kenyans have more pressing fears; corruption, high cost of living, fuel prices, lack of water and other basic amenities. An ethnic community can have one of their own in the biggest seat and still have nothing on the ground.   MPs resort to traditional 'Mlolongo' voting on proposed 8% VAT on petroleum products   Democracy within schools has seen students elect their own leaders through a voting system  Unusual silence from observers even as 25 constituencies fail to take part in voting By Editorial | 7 hours ago By Editorial | 7 hours ago By Diba Kosi Bilinga | 7 hours ago By Kalangi Kiambati | 7 hours ago