Tourism CS Najib Balala at Afya house in Nairobi. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  Persons aged 75 years and above will now enjoy free entry to the Nairobi National Park, effective November 25.  Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala made the announcement yesterday in commemoration of the park’s 75th anniversary.  The offer promoted by the Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) will run for a period of one month.   “KWS will also facilitate free entry into Nairobi Safari Walk and Nairobi Animal Orphanage for persons living with disabilities and children homes,” Balala said.  Sh3.5b EU grant to promote blue economy, tourism at the Coast  No Covid-19 certificate? Forget government services  Tourism players at the Coast upbeat as festive bookings rise  Give Kenya’s tourism industry a boost .@kwskenya will also facilitate free entry into Nairobi Safari Walk and Nairobi Animal Orphanage for persons living with disabilities and children homes for a period of one month effective 25th November, 2021.#NairobiParkAt75 #ZuruNaKWS #ZuruNairobiPark ???? pic.twitter.com/90nz94odOH — Hon. Najib Balala (@tunajibu) November 25, 2021 The first seventy-five people to visit the park on December 16 will also enjoy free entry, on the day planned for the culmination of the activities, 75 years since the park was established.  Balala said Kenya is proud to have a wildlife habitat located a few kilometers from the Nairobi Central Business District (CBD).  “Obviously, it is no mean achievement to maintain and sustain such a critical facility located in a vibrant capital city and regional hub with so many competing land uses and economic interests,” he said at the KWS headquarters.  The Nairobi National park, established in 1946 is the oldest in Kenya and the only park within a capital city.   Revamping Tourism: CS Najib Balala talks on outsourcing National Parks  Hope for Tourism sector with number of local tourists increasing as the country heads to Easter  Good news for tourism sector players as stimulus packages reportedly still available By Kamau Muthoni | 1 day ago By James Mwangi | 1 day ago By Paul Ogemba | 1 day ago By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 1 day ago