A cow supported by twigs so that it feeds. [Mate Tongola, Standard]  The North Eastern drought situation has reached a crisis level as humans and animals die of hunger daily.  In Dadaab, Garissa County, livestock are being supported by twigs so that they can stand while feeding.  Hundreds of livestock and tens of people have died since the drought kicked in a few months ago.  On Thursday, November 18, a crisis meeting was called in Dadaab, with the local administration trained on drought management.  Hunger pushes children out of class to seek food in bushes and marriages  Government launch Sh1.2 billion water projects in Nyandarua  Step up efforts to bail out drought-hit families  Mystery of terror suspects escaping Kenya's most guarded prison Drought-stricken livestock die in their numbers in Garissa County. [Standard]  Locals are pointing an accusing finger at the national government for delayed response to the drought crisis.  “They had to wait until tens of human lives and are lost to react,” said Mohammed Aboud, a pastoralist in Garissa.  Aboud said relief food was yet to be distributed in his Lagdera community.  Farah, a 63-year-old resident of Bulla Iftin, urged the government to prioritise drought response, “instead of politicking on a daily basis”.  A herd of goats feels the effect of drought in Garissa County. [Standard]  Mohamed Bull, the chief of Dertu Location in Dadaab, echoed Iftin’s sentiments, saying “children are malnourished and their parents are losing their lives”.  The national drought management authority said it had swiftly responded to the crisis, providing food to residents of Bolugho and Ijara sub-counties, both in Garissa County.   Kadi nyingi za Huduma Namba hazijachukuliwa Garissa, Makali ya Korona | MBIU YA KTN (Sehemu ya 2)  Seneta Abdul Haji asema kwamba anawezana na changamoto zinazowakabili wakaazi wa kaunti ya Garissa  Viongozi kutoka eneo la Garissa wapaza kilio chao kuhusu ukosefu wa walimu wa kutosha shuleni By Lucas Ngasike | 1 day ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 3 days ago By Mireri Junior | 13 days ago By Betty Njeru | 16 days ago