Nyeri Town Mp Ngunjiri Wambugu. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu has called on the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) chair Wafula Chebukati to resign for taking a position on the role of Cabinet Secretaries in politics.  Speaking in Nyeri town yesterday when he hosted Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege, and her delegation, Wambugu said that Chebukati is biased on his position on the Cabinet involvement in politics.   “His comments can only be interpreted as political because we have a Deputy President who is a member of Cabinet, and the IEBC chair has never called him out for taking a political position,” he said.  He argued that the IEBC chair has been quiet even as the DP actively campaigns for his 2022 presidential bid.   Chebukati tells High Court it lacks powers to jail him  Nyeri Town MP calls for Chebukati's resignation  Riddle of Mt Kenya’s low voter turnout  Court lifts orders extending mass voter registration   Wambugu was reacting to Chebukati’s warning to CSs engaging in 2022 politics.  “Chebukati is quick to say that CS should not take a political position and that is very biased, and it is okay as long as we agree that all of us have our biases and should assess what this means,” he said.  He said that while CSs such as Fred Matiangi (Interior) and Joe Mucheru (ICT) have political opinions, they were not directly involved with the elections while Chebukati is the head of IEBC.  “He has taken a position by taking sides between CSs and the DP therefore we should consider finding someone else to chair the IEBC,” Wambugu said.  The Nyeri Town MP said that if indeed the IEBC chair has taken a political position then the role of heading the team of referees who will be in charge of the upcoming election should be given to someone else.  “He needs to just go home and we find a suitable replacement for the IEBC chair, we have over 45 million Kenyans I am sure we can find someone else,” he added.   ODM’s attempt to oust Chebukati from IEBC elicits mixed reactions | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  IEBC launches 2020-2024 Strategic Plan ahead of the 2022 general elections  Uteuzi wa kidato cha kwanza, IEBC imezindua ruwaza na mikakati ya miaka mitano ijayo | MBIU YA KTN By Boniface Gikandi | 4 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 8 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi | 9 hours ago By George Njunge | 14 hours ago