Entrepreneur Michelle Ntalami has finally confirmed that she has ended her love affair with Makena Njeri over infidelity.  In a long statement posted on social media, Ntalami cited serial infidelity with multiple women for close to a year as the main reason behind their breakup.  “The truth of the matter of why we are no longer together is serial infidelity on their part with multiple partners. Those I suspected and confirmed are two individuals; one a public figure, and the other a less known married woman, a health worker. Eventually, these individuals undoubtedly confirmed the above. I attach screenshots and my responses simply to alleviate denial,” said Ntalami.  The heartbroken entrepreneur accused Makena of being unapologetic despite having cheating evidence.  Man suspected of chopping off wife’s hands after quarrel  Men, here are the natural foods to increase your ‘stamina’  Natembeya warns county commissioners against illicit affairs with junior staff   Man’s meddling family costs him his three-year marriage "What they have done to me is downright heartless. It is not right to go around hurting someone you claim to love, putting on a facade that all is well while leaving their life in disarray and not being accountable for the pain and trauma caused,” she said.  Ntalami said the two women Makena allegedly cheated with have confirmed their affairs with her  “When it comes to love and relationships, infidelity will never be in my cards. Sure, no one is perfect. We all make mistakes. But at the very least, if they’d have owned up to what they’ve done, we would be in a much better place,” part of her statement read in parts.  She said she kept her frustrations and pain to herself for almost a year, but added it was time to come out and let go of the hurt.  “I have sat silently with this pain for almost a year, I feel extremely used. I am currently coming to terms with all of this. It has been a tough journey this year, but I am learning to let go of the hurt, move on and simply, adjust back my crown,” she said.  Ntalami said despite the breakup, she will not delete social media photos they took when still in love saying she does not regret what they shared while still dating.   “I will never delete anything on my page with them that we shared. Anything done out of love will never be regrettable by me. It is a beautiful testimony of our love and I am ever so proud of loving them so boldly.”  The gay couple went public about their relationship from the beginning and shared intimate photos of them on social media which she plans to keep.   The silent intruder in relationships | BLACK AND WHITE  Je, mali huathiri ndoa vipi? |NUSUSI YA JINSIA  Eva: The loss of my father drove me into alcoholism and toxic relationships By Mireri Junior | 3 days ago By Winfrey Owino | 10 days ago By Mireri Junior | 17 days ago By Winfrey Owino | 24 days ago