Wreckage of vehicles involved in a road accident at Migaa area, along Nakuru-Eldoret Highway. [Mercy Kahenda, Standard]  Two people have died in a road accident at the Migaa black spot along the Nakuru-Eldoret Highway.  The accident involved two trucks heading towards Nakuru- one ferrying maize and another loaded with firewood.  Area chief Zack Monari said the truck ferrying maize hit two successive speed bumps making the driver lose control and hit another truck.  "The driver of the first truck and the conductor of the second truck died on the spot," said Monari.  Uncertainty hits burial of couple and daughter who died in same accident  Man found with gun rearrested after escaping his first capture  Couple and two daughters die in accident on their way to a funeral  Man, his wife and their two adult daughters killed in road accident The owner of the truck ferrying maize who only identified himself as Mr Nyagah said that he was asleep on the conductor's seat when the accident happened.  "I had buckled up and fell asleep at Kibunja Junction. I was woken up by the impact after which the truck overturned," Nyagah narrated.  First responder and nominated ward representative Rachel Maru said that they managed to rescue the driver of the second truck who has been rushed to hospital.  "We had to cut through the wreckage to retrieve the driver and rushed him to hospital. The second occupant of the first truck escaped the accident unscathed," said Maru.  The two leaders called on the government to redesign the road by removing the speed bumps which have been blamed for multiple accidents in the area.  "We are however grateful for the median barrier separating traffic flowing in opposite directions. The accident would have had more fatalities," said Maru.  She added that drivers whose trucks lose breaks rarely use speed rumps constructed at the sides of the highway to stop them.  "We urge the government to expedite the Rironi-Mau Summit Highway project. Having extra lanes will go a long way in minimising accidents," said Maru.   4 people died in a road accident after personal car collided with a lorry along Machakos-Kitui road  7 dead in road accident in Kisumu after Sugarcane truck rammed into matatu and another car  Mtu mmoja ameaga dunia kufuatia ajali iliyotokea Lang'ata Road By James Munyeki | 2 hours ago By Irissheel Shanzu | 3 hours ago By Nikko Tanui | 3 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 4 hours ago