A student at the University of Embu registers as a voter at a polling station in Embu town on September 6, 2021[Muriithi Mugo, Standard]  The High Court has lifted its Monday orders that prohibited Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission from concluding mass voter registration.  Justice Eric Ogola gave the orders following an application by the electoral agency requesting the court to discharge its earlier orders of extension of mass voter registration which was scheduled to end on November 2.  Justice Ogola ordered that the conservatory orders - which were set to run until November 9 when the petition filed by a voter will be heard in court - would remain valid until Friday, November 5 at 5.30pm.  Through its advocates Moses Kipkogei and Mwangi Kang’o, the IEBC indicated that it had no funds to continue with the registration process.  Riddle of Mt Kenya’s low voter turnout  IEBC gives elections management kit tender to Netherlands firm  IEBC needs Sh47m for each extra day after court extends voter listing  Mukurweini worst, Starehe tops in fresh voter listing record   They told the court that the order came into existence as a surprise and the commission had not been given a chance to be heard.  Kipkogei told the court that the enhanced voter registration is an expensive undertaking that has cost the commission Sh126 million in three days.  “The IEBC has spent Sh42 million daily since the orders came into existence, amounting to Sh126 million of resources it does not have.  "The enhanced voter registration is an undertaking that requires planning and elaborate engagement with stakeholders,” said Kipkogei.  He further stated that Parliament had approved Sh1.27 billion, which had been spent over the one-month registration period.  "Any expense beyond the budget amount is an offence that amounts to misappropriation of public funds,” he added.  Kang’o said that extension of voter enlisting period does not also mean that the many citizens would turn up and help IEBC reach its target.  “The right to register as a voter is not mandatory. It is voluntary.  "Extending the registration does not mean that more voters will come for registration when millions of funds will be spent in the process,” said Kang’o.   ODM’s attempt to oust Chebukati from IEBC elicits mixed reactions | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  IEBC launches 2020-2024 Strategic Plan ahead of the 2022 general elections  Uteuzi wa kidato cha kwanza, IEBC imezindua ruwaza na mikakati ya miaka mitano ijayo | MBIU YA KTN By Paul Ogemba | 3 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 3 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 3 hours ago By Hellen Miseda | 3 hours ago