Ugenya MP David Ochieng has made good his threat to give ODM a run for its money in next year’s elections.  Elated by his party’s victory in 2017 Ugenya by-election where he beat the ODM candidate, Ochieng said his Movement for Growth and Democracy (MDG) party would sponsor former Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo for Siaya governor seat.  Ochieng, who resigned from ODM citing frustrations from the top leadership, successfully filed a petition in court after ODM’s Chris Karan was declared winner in the 2017 General Election. The Court of Appeal upheld the High Court decision that nullified Karan’s election. Ochieng beat Karan in the ensuing by-election.  Ochieng said MDG will field candidates in a region perceived to be an ODM stronghold to allow for ideas to be tested, adding they would only spare the presidential seat because they support ODM leader Raila Odinga.  He said this will set a ground for the best candidates to be elected.  Leaders seeking to succeed Cornel Rasanga call for fair primaries  Siaya politician Florence Aluodo dies  Awkward shows in House as MPs axed for being on wrong side  David Ochieng: NASA attempts to de-whip me illegal “Gumbo will compete against an ODM candidate in Siaya County. We will also have candidates for other seats. Luos are known to fight for great ideas in this country and even politics. In the coming polls, I want to assure you again that MDG will field candidates against ODM,” said Ochieng.  He spoke on Saturday at a funeral in Ukwala, Ugenya Sub-county.  He said it was illogical that ODM was campaigning for Raila nationally, but had plans to force a governor on Siaya residents.     Pulpit Politics: ODM leader Raila Odinga welcomes move to ban politicians speaking in church  Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens  Wawaniaji wa nafasi ya Ugavana kaunti ya Mombasa kupitia chama cha ODM wajiandaa By Moses Nyamori | 25 minutes ago By Stanley Ongwae and Edwin Nyarangi | 2 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 12 hours ago By Ali Abdi | 12 hours ago