Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chairperson Wafula Chebukati. [Samson Wire. Standard]  Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu has called on the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) chairperson Wafula Chebukati to resign for taking a position on the role of Cabinet Secretaries in politics.  Speaking in Nyeri town yesterday when he hosted Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege, and her delegation, Wambugu said Chebukati is biased on his position on the Cabinet involvement in politics.   “His comments can only be interpreted as political because we have a Deputy President who is a member of Cabinet, and the IEBC chair has never called him out for taking a political position,” he noted.  He argued that the IEBC chair has been quiet even as the DP actively campaigns for his 2022 presidential bid.   Riddle of Mt Kenya’s low voter turnout  Court lifts orders extending mass voter registration  IEBC gives elections management kit tender to Netherlands firm  IEBC needs Sh47m for each extra day after court extends voter listing “In my opinion, Chebukati is quick to say that CSs should not take a political position and that is very biased,” he stated.  He noted that while Cabinet Secretaries such as Fred Matiangi (Interior) and Joe Mucheru (ICT) have political opinions, they were not directly involved in the election while Chebukati is the head of the electoral agency.  “He (Chebukati) has taken a position by taking sides between CSs and the DP, therefore, we should consider finding someone else to chair the IEBC who is not as obvious as he is,” Wambugu said.  The Nyeri Town MP said that if indeed the IEBC chair has taken a political position then the role of heading the team of referees who will be in charge of the upcoming election should be given to someone else.  “He needs to just go home and we find a suitable replacement for the IEBC chair. We have over 45 million Kenyans. I am sure we can find someone else,” he said.  Wambugu was responding to Chebukati’s warning to CSs engaging in 2022 politics.  The IEBC chair was speaking in response to a letter by UDA which sought clarification on the subject of Matiang'i and Mucheru's involvement in poll planning teams.  “There is need for all state officers and public officers to uphold political neutrality,” Chebukati said.  The IEBC chair pointed out that Section 23 of the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012, which seems to give Cabinet Secretaries and County Executive Committee Members a lifeline to engage in political activity is insufficient.  “That statutory provision no doubt falls foul of the constitutional underpins under Chapter Six of Constitution,” Chebukati wrote.   ODM’s attempt to oust Chebukati from IEBC elicits mixed reactions | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  IEBC launches 2020-2024 Strategic Plan ahead of the 2022 general elections  Uteuzi wa kidato cha kwanza, IEBC imezindua ruwaza na mikakati ya miaka mitano ijayo | MBIU YA KTN By Nathan Ochunge | 5 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 14 hours ago By Biketi Kikechi | 14 hours ago By Standard Team | 14 hours ago