Former Laikipia North MP Mathew Lempurkel at a Milimani court in July in a case where he was charged with assaulting current area MP Sarah Korere in 2016. [File, Standard]  Former Laikipia North MP Mathew Lempurkel has been sentenced to 12 months in prison for assault  Lempurkel was charged with assault after he slapped the current Laikipia North MP Sarah Korere, on November 21, 2016, at Harambee House in Nairobi.  According to a court charge sheet, Lempurkel slapped Korere on the left cheek and kicked her on the lower abdomen injuring her in the process.  Senior Principal Magistrate, Hellen Onkwani slapped Lempurkel with a 12-months sentence with no option for a fine.  Man suspected of chopping off wife’s hands after quarrel  Keveye Girls on the rampage, say school treating their security lightly  Two police officers face probe for assault  Ndichu Brothers: Police get more information from Murgor sisters over attack Lempurkel was convicted after the court ruled that the Prosecution had proved beyond reasonable doubt that he committed the offence.  Through his lawyer James Orengo, Lempurkel claimed that a CCTV footage did not capture the incident he is charged with.  However, the magistrate dismissed his claims ruling that the boardroom where the offence was committed had no CCTV.  Onkwani also rejected the defence claim that the ex-MP was a first-time offender, ruling that as a leader Lempurkel should set a good example to Kenyans.  Lempurkel has 14 days to appeal the ruling or begin his sentence.  The former legislator was in September arrested over the clashes in Laikipia County.  He was charged with hate speech before being released on a cash bail of Sh150,000 after pleading not guilty.   Sonko Case: Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko due in court over assault charges  A Man has been stuck in a hospital in Mombasa for over two months after an alleged assault by police  6 police officers to be charged with murder, shootings and assault following IPOA's investigations By Eric Abuga | 2 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 8 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich and Josphat Thiongo | 8 hours ago By  Judah Ben Huh and Grace Ng'ang'a | 16 hours ago