Gavel on desk [Courtesy]  Six suspects who were arrested for allegedly embezzling Sh85.1 million in Homa Bay County were yesterday charged in court.  Former Clerk of the County Assembly Bob Kephas, interdicted Chief Finance Officer Caroline Sang’, interdicted Senior Accounts Controller Maurice Amek, and three members of construction companies–Evelyne Ogutu of T/A Nyangume Enterprise, David Mireri and Lilian Aloo of Damila Enterprises–appeared before Homa Bay Chief Magistrate Julius Nangea.  The suspects were charged with various offences, which included abuse of office, unlawful acquisition of public property, dealing with suspect property, stealing and money laundering.  The court was told that the suspects jointly embezzled Sh85.177 million in public funds between January 1, 2015 and February 2017.  Ex-governor Ferdinand Waititu, wife charged afresh  Public service spirit, what’s that? We are Kenyans  When judges temper justice with logic and understanding  EACC arrests officials over alleged embezzlement of Sh85.1m at Homa Bay County Assembly   The six allegedly benefited from the money that belonged to Homa Bay County “without doing any work, providing any service or delivering any goods.”  But each of the accused persons denied the offences.  Prosecutor Annette Wangia sought orders from the court barring the six from interacting with witnesses in the case.  “Some associates of the suspects are calling witnesses to threaten and intimidate them. I also ask the court to withhold the suspects’ travel documents to prevent them from escaping,” Ms Wangia said.  The suspects’ lawyers led by Denis Seko asked for lenient bond terms.  “Some of our clients are facing other charges of corruption in court and have been collaborating well with the EACC in the charges,” Mr Seko said.  Mr Nangea ruled that the suspects could be released on a Sh3 million bond with a surety of a similar amount. Alternatively, they were told to deposit a cash bail of Sh2 million.  “The suspects will be remanded at the Homa Bay GK Prison until they deposit the bond or cash bail,” Mr Nangea said. The case will be mentioned on November 30.   Dr. Mukhisa Kituyi: We must slay the monster of corruption to save Kenya  DPP Noordin Haji wants the court to lockout MPs representing clients in corruption cases  "Dictionary yake haikuwa na neno corruption", Mzee Matundura remembers Simeon Nyachae By Eric Abuga | 1 day ago By James Omoro | 1 day ago By James Omoro | 1 day ago By Isaiah Gwengi | 4 days ago