Nyeri and Murang'a counties have intensified efforts towards mass Covid-19 vaccination.  Nyeri County Health Department is now taking the vaccine to busy parks and streets in major towns, even at night.   In a campaign dubbed moonlight vaccination, the counties have restructured their vaccination campaign to ensure all eligible residents access the vaccine.  County Director of Health Services Nelson Muriu and Amref Health Africa in Kenya Project officer Joram Onditi commended the partnership that was rolled out earlier this month.  "We are working in conjunction with Amref, with an aim of reaching out to a larger population, who are unable to access the vaccine during the normal working hours due to commitments," said Dr Muriu.  Climate change is a new moment of truth  What you need to know about the coronavirus right now  ‘No signs of Covid’ in East Africa before March 2020  Rural Siaya keener on Covid jabs than urban Kibra On average, the 10-day campaign is vaccinating at least 200 people per day, as the programme, which runs from 3:30pm to 9pm, continues to gain popularity.  "It is very encouraging to see the good work and commitment by the health workers at the site, who have agreed to offer their services even after the normal working hours," Mr Onditi said.  In Murang'a County, Judy Makira organises medical camps at Kahuro market, where the vaccine is administered.   “I am grateful to the county government of Murang’a for supporting the initiative,” said Ms Makira.  Eunice Owino of Centre for Women Empowerment in Technology (CWE Tech) said the government needed to increase the number of health workers for easy coverage.  “There has been an improvement in the healthcare system, but more efforts are required by the county government to see the number of visits to health centres increased,” said Owino.     Ministry of Health receives 180,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine as a donation from Gov't of Greece  HEALTH WATCH: How Covid-19 misinformation worldwide has created panic by misleading masses  KEMRI makes a breakthrough in the fight against Covid-19 by developing a Virus Transport Media (VTM) By Boniface Gikandi | 23 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi | 23 hours ago By Nderitu Gichure | 3 days ago By Kamore Maina | 3 days ago