OKA principals,  from left; Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula, Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and KANU Chairman Gideon Moi during a service at AIPCA Kinamba Church, Naivasha. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  One Kenya Alliance (OKA) leaders took their campaigns to Trans Nzoia yesterday, promising to prioritise economic recovery and the fight against corruption.  Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang’ula (Ford K) and Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper addressed the first rally at Sibanga market in Cherangany where they promised to fix the ailing economy.  The OKA team said they are united and are exploring ways of picking the alliance's flagbearer.     Prepare for the fight of your life, Kalonzo tells Wanjigi   Wavinya, Makau clash in church harambee  Put your interests first, Gideon tells Kenyans  OKA leaders pledge to lift Western economy Wetang’ula told their political competitors not interfere with the internal affairs of OKA following calls that they should name their candidate.  “We will announce who will carry the flag when time is ripe. For now, we are reaching out to Kenyans to support our agenda of ascending to power,” said Wetang’ula.  He promised that if one of them is elected president next year, the alliance will ensure reduced cost of farm inputs to boost production.  “Agriculture is the backbone of the country but food production has gone down due to the high cost of production and because of cartels. We are going to lock out brokers behind the high cost of seeds and fertilizer and ensure farmers access affordable inputs,” said Wetang’ula.  Kalonzo said the team is committed to improving the economy, uniting Kenyans and liberating the population from poverty.  “Our priority is to revive the economy and the war against corrupt and other vices which is sabotaging service delivery to Kenyans,” said Kalonzo.  He warned Kenyans against electing a corrupt president who would make life more difficult.   “Don’t allow people who stole public money and who dish out the same as handouts to get to power. They will make you suffer more. Look for a credible leader able to transform the country,” said Kalonzo.  Kalonzo also said they would stick together until and after picking their flag bearer.  During the rallies in Trans Nzoia, Kalonzo told their supporters that other OKA principals, Gideon Moi and Cyrus Jirongo, were engaged elsewhere and had sent their apologies.  Also present were MPs Ayub Savula, Dr Chris Wamalwa and Alfred Agoi, former Trans-Nzoia senator Henry Ndiema and several MCAs.  They visited Maili Saba, Center Kwanza and Kolongolo, Kapkoi, Chepchoina, Endebess, Matisi, Kitale and wound up their tour at Kiminini.    Musalia Mudavadi is expected in Meru county in his heightened political activities to woo the region  Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao  Seneta Gideon Moi aelezea matumaini yake kuwa mahakama itatoa uamuzi bora kuhusu mchakato wa BBI By Jacob Ng'etich and Erastus Mulwa | 10 minutes ago By Erastus Mulwa | 2 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 5 hours ago By Jane Mugambi | 8 hours ago