Transport CS James Macharia (holding the Kenyan flag) Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi and Kilifi Senator Steward Madzayo during the commissioning of the construction of the 56KM Bamba-Ganze-Kilifi road in Kilifi County on Tuesday, November 2, 2021. [Kelvin Karani, Standard]  The national government has launched tarmacking of the Bamba-Ganze-Kilifi road expected to cost Sh2.1 billion.  Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia said the 56-kilometre road, set to be a major booster of the local economy, will be completed in three years.  Macharia who spoke on Tuesday while launching the project also asked the Chinese contractor to employ residents.  "The road is expected to open up this region. It will improve access to social amenities such as schools, hospitals, and markets, which will, in turn, boost the living standards of residents through the creation of jobs and promotion of trade and investment in Ganze," said Macharia.    The CS, who was accompanied by local leaders, including area governor Amason Kingi, said: "We have today fulfilled our promise to tarmac this road. It will link Mariakani-Bamba-Ganze-Kilifi bypass to facilitate trade. As we commission the works today, we have also asked the constructor to ensure he completes the job on time."  Macharia said construction of the road will also help address hunger in Ganze, a drought-prone rural area in Kilifi, by enhancing transport services.  "We have given the tender to a Chinese contractor and they promised to complete it in a period of three years as we had asked them," the CS said.  Residents have, for many years, been grappling with transport challenges due to poor roads. The roads become impassable, especially during rainy seasons.  A resident, Kanze Charo said: "I lost my baby in 2008 because I was unable to get to Kilifi District Hospital on time. Reason? The road was poor. I hope such a thing never happens to any other person."  Amos Kazungu, a resident of Bamba said: "We have been waiting for construction on this road for a long time but we are happy the project has finally been launched."  Kingi asked the contractor to make every effort and ensure the road is completed on time. "This is an important road in this region. It will boost tourism and agriculture, especially in Ganze when complete," said the governor.  He added: "Leaders should set aside their political differences and serve Kenyans. I call upon residents to reject those only keen on politics and spreading hatred and embrace those who preach development and are keen on uplifting the standards of life of residents."  Kingi also distributed food to residents.  By Benard Sanga | 9 hours ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 13 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 1 day ago By Joackim Bwana | 1 day ago