Youths allied to JB Muturi during a press conference to defend the National Assembly Speaker over recent attacks in local dailies by people believed to be his opponents on November 23, 2021. [Courtesy]  A lobby group allied to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has refuted claims that he is being groomed to deputise a certain presidential candidate in the 2022 elections.  Youth for Muturi lobby chairman Khamasi Newton said the Speaker will vie for the presidency and urged Kenyans to disregard misleading reports stating otherwise.  "We hereby categorically assure Kenyans that JB Muturi will be on the ballot come August 2022 as the Democratic Party presidential candidate, and no amount of intimidation, mudslinging and maligning will deter his vision for the country,” said Mr Khamasi in a statement to newsrooms.  Members claimed there was a "malicious campaign of disinformation" against Mr Muturi's candidature by unnamed individuals, "meant to sow confusion and imply that Muturi would not be on the ballot."  Speaker Justin Muturi on Uhuru, Raila 'secret pact'  Justin Muturi’s campaign team falters as his aide shuns strategy team, advisors  Muturi’s campaign in disarray as aide shuns strategy team, advisors  Fake: National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has not been hospitalised   "So we are calling on our political opponents to stop this cheap propaganda that will bear no fruit but just clearly portray them as the sore losers they will be in a few months.  "Justin Muturi will not waver and will not be cowed. He will surprise every Kenyan, friend and foe as the 5th president of Kenya,” said Khamasi.  The development comes against the backdrop of an announcement by the One Kenya Alliance that it will enter into an arrangement with Mount Kenya Forum leaders with an eye on next year's General Election.  The forum, whose leaders include Narc Kenya party leader Martha Karua and Muturi, among other current and former Mt Kenya politicians, said they would be looking for more allies as they prepare for the polls.  The meeting was attended by ANC's Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Kanu chairman Gideon Moi, Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula, Cyrus Jirongo, former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo and former Tetu MP Ndung'u Gethenji.   Speaker Justin Muturi defends the Kikuyu council of elders that installed him as Mt. Kenya spokesman  Spika Justin Muturi amejitokeza waziwazi kutetea wazee wa Njuri Ncheke dhidi ya shutuma dhidi yao  Speaker Justin Muturi's new role elicits mixed reaction from leaders & people from Mt. Kenya region By Erastus M Mulwa | 25 minutes ago By Allan Mungai | 25 minutes ago By Ndungu Gachane | 25 minutes ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 6 hours ago Court saves leafy Karen suburb from unwelcome structures