Relatives of a Buruburu Girls High School teacher who died at a beach holiday villa in Kwale County at the weekend is demanding justice.  The family dismissed reports that Nelson Otsianda, the chemistry and mathematics teacher, drowned at the hotel's swimming pool.  His father Claude Anangwe told The Standard on the telephone from Diani beach, yesterday, that the family was not convinced that Otsianda drowned.  “We have gone through the CCTV footage and what we are seeing is disturbing,” he said.  Four police officers to know their fate in Briton's murder case  Phone gift leads to conviction of man who killed, buried lover in shallow grave  Two possible reasons for murder of Umoja couple that police are investigating  Court rules assistant chief has case to answer on bishop's missing dogs The teacher had taken a weekend break and lived at the hotel.   The CCTV footage Mr Anangwe said he went through reportedly revealed that his son was beaten up by three people with whom he was in the swimming pool.  “These three who were in the company of my son can provide answers on what could have happened. Police should take them in for questioning,” he said.  He said Otsianda had recently travelled to their home in Butere from Nairobi when they lost a relative. “He later left for Nairobi after the burial before coming to the Coast,” he said of his firstborn.  Kwale County Police Commander Steve Oloo said they had started investigations.   Otsianda had been teaching at Buruburu Girls for the last three years.  The hotel had reported that Otsianda fell in the swimming pool while drunk, but the family claimed the teacher was clobbered and thrown into the swimming pool.      Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death  Nyeri Murder Probe: Nyeri tycoon accused of killing his own son over domestic quarrel between them By Nehemiah Okwembah | 17 hours ago By Willis Oketch | 22 hours ago By Nehemiah Okwembah | 23 hours ago By Philip Mwakio | 1 day ago