Deputy President William Ruto got a boost in Meru after some of the local leaders endorsed him.  In Governor Kiraitu Murungi's South Imenti backyard, some of those aspiring for MP seat assured the DP of support.  Six out of nine elected MPs in the county were with Ruto during his two-day visit. They included Kubai Kiringo (Igembe Central), John Mwirigi (Igembe South), John Mutunga (Tigania West), Moses Kirima of Central Imenti and a section of Meru MCAs.  Buuri MP Rindikiri Mugambi and Nominated MP Halima Mucheke also affirmed their backing for Ruto.  Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua yesterday called on Governor Kiraitu and Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya to decamp to Ruto side.  Raila queries Ruto's wealth and sacks of cash during rallies  Battle for Mt Kenya: Ruto gets a bit rough on the edges  US, Kenya push call for peace in Sudan and Ethiopia  Mobile phone lines inside Sudan are cut before planned protests In Igembe North where area MP Maoka Maore is leading the campaign for Raila, his main challengers voiced their support for UDA.   These included Kiraitu's Roads, Energy and Transport Executive Julius Taitumu and former area MPs Joseph Eruaki and Ntoitha Mithiaru.    Ruto asked residents to back his party's aspirants. "Vote in for UDA MCAs, MPs and governors. They understand the bottom-up model."  The DP said he would complete the development agenda he and President Uhuru Kenyatta had set out to achieve "before it was affected by reggae and clamour to create positions of PM, deputy PM positions."  Meru Senator Mithika Linturi said area MPs were committed to ensuring Ruto becomes president. MP Kathuri Murungi asked voters to reject those selling Raila in the region.  Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro said they will not be intimidated by Jubilee.      What is ailing football in Kenya? Stakeholders discuss challenges, solutions, and the game's future  Drought situation in Wajir reaches alarming levels with thousands of animals succumbing to hunger  DP Ruto pledges to finalize the BIG 4 Agenda which he says stalled after Raila's pact with Uhuru By Grace Ng'ang'a | 2 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 2 hours ago By Timothy Kariuki | 17 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 19 hours ago