The national government will construct new classrooms in 293 secondary schools in Homa Bay County at Sh324.656 million.  Each of the schools will get a varying number of classrooms, ranging from one to five, depending on their needs. The schools include those in the Lake Victoria islands.  Homa Bay County Commissioner Moses Lilan said they are in the advanced stages of awarding tenders to contractors who will undertake the work.  Lilan spoke on Wednesday during a stakeholder meeting at Nyalkinyi Secondary School in Homa Bay. He was accompanied by County Director of Education Eunice Khaemba, Deputy County Commissioner Jude Wasonga and his colleagues from seven sub-counties.  According to Lilan, the project will begin soon and would be expedited to ensure they are completed and handed over by April.  Why cases of indiscipline are on the increase in our schools  State doles out mid-term break, players protest it’s not enough  Buruburu school fire highlights critical gaps in school emergency  Government announces mid-term break for secondary school students “We want the work to begin as soon as possible to enable us to beat the stipulated deadline,” Lilan said.  A study was conducted to identify the different learning institutions in need of infrastructure.  Lilan said deputy county commissioners and sub-county directors of education would supervise the implementation of the project in their jurisdictions.  He said no contractor would be awarded tender in more than one school. “We don’t expect any shoddy job because the government has come up with a design of constructing the classrooms.”  The administrator said they are keen on integrity issues in awarding the tenders. “The contract will be awarded to local contractors.”  He warned school managers against embezzlement of funds.  Kongere urged local contractors not to shy away from bidding.  The State intends to undertake the programme to avoid confusion and congestion in 2023 when all secondary schools will have double intake.   The cost of education in Kenya as Gov't pushes for 100% transition policy | NEWSLINE WITH BEN KITILI  New Sports Curriculum: Gov't launches physical education and sports policy in accordance with CBC  Schools in the country set to re-open this coming Monday after a 7-week holiday By Hudson Gumbihi | 16 hours ago By James Omoro | 1 day ago By James Omoro | 2 days ago By James Omoro | 2 days ago