Nyeri County Governor Mutahi Kahiga and ODM leader Raila Odinga. [File, Standard]  Nyeri County will this weekend host a series of Azimio la Umoja events as Governor Mutahi Kahiga is expected to make a comeback into the camp after months of silence.  According to organisers, ODM leader Raila Odinga will spend two days in the region in another signature visit that will also include meetings with stakeholders.  ODM Nyeri County chairman Wachira Maina said Raila would be accompanied by a delegation of elders from the Luo Council who would be hosted by their counterparts from Kikuyu Council.    Without OKA's support, it'll be hard for Raila to win election  Wiper endorses Kalonzo amid calls for consensus  Raila hints at working with Kalonzo ahead of next year's election  Raila to tour Nyeri for two days from tomorrow "The first meeting will involve 600 elders drawn from two formations - Kikuyu Council of Elders and the Kiama Kiama and another 600 elders from the Luo Council of Elders," Wachira said yesterday.  He said the meeting will then give way to another one with youth which will only involve young people from the region and Raila.  The ODM leader will then meet with invited business and community leaders and spend the night in town.  “The meeting with professionals will offer an opportunity for Nyeri people to express their views to Raila," he said.  On Saturday, Raila will be joined by some Central Kenya governors and legislators who support his 2022 bid in meet the people tour in Nyeri, Mukurweini and Othaya.  Among governors expected in the rallies are Kahiga, Laikipia's Ndiritu Muriithi, James Nyoro (Kiambu), Francis Kimemia (Nyandarua) and Nakuru's Lee Kinyanjui.  “We have invited all leaders from Nyeri County and Central Kenya, they are welcome to join Raila in his peace tour of the county,” he said.  Wachira said Raila’s visit is a national initiative involving the local leadership teams and they are welcome to join in preaching peace.   “These are not campaigns, as our leader Raila has not confirmed his bid for presidency but we hope as soon as he confirms we shall support him as we are safe in his hands, this country is safe,” he said.   Has Kenya gotten devolution, right? Is it time for an adjustment or Should the country soldier on?  Reigning champion Carl Tundo registers 4th win of the season after victory in Thika Rally  Wazalendo Hockey team ready for the Africa cup of club champions in Ghana By Erastus M Mulwa | 25 minutes ago By Allan Mungai | 25 minutes ago By Ndungu Gachane | 25 minutes ago By Jael Mboga | 7 hours ago Court saves leafy Karen suburb from unwelcome structures