Dr Awuor Ponge when his former teacher, Jack Ouma Owang' paid him a courtesy call at his home in Ginga Valley. [Courtesy, Standard]  I have served in various professional societies nationally, regionally and globally, in different capacities.  Since 2019, I have served as the Africa Regional Representative at the EvalIndigenous, an Evaluation Partners (EvalPartners) Global Community Network, where I will serve till 2022. I’m the Secretary General of the Institute for Development Studies (IDS), University of Nairobi Alumni Association, where I will also serve until 2022. I’m also currently serving as the Secretary General of the Guidelines International Network (G-I-N) Africa Chapter.  Between 2014 and 2020, I served as board member at the International Organisation for Collaborative Outcome Management (IOCOM), where I developed the IOCOM membership and membership fee policy; introduced regional representation; took part in development of the IOCOM Strategic Plan 2014–2020; development of a memorandum of understanding for partnerships; and developed the IOCOM external consultancy policy.  In 2019, I served as board member at the Society of Gender Professionals where I was also the committee lead for Events and Capacity Development Committee. Between 2015 and 2016, I was a mentor for the Young African Leaders Initiative; East African Regional Leadership Centre, an initiative of former US President Barack Obama. And in 2018, I was a mentor for the EvalYouth and EvalPartners Pilot Global Mentoring Programme.  Dr Awuor Ponge: I’ll always give back to society because many held my hand during the dark days   The love of reading at an early age is essential for lifelong learning  A first degree takes four years, but Dr Ponge got his after 16 years  Dr Ponge: The dirty games we played for money, booze  Between 2014 and 2017, I served as board member representing sub-Saharan Africa at the International Development Evaluation Association (IDEAS), which is the global body bringing together evaluation practitioners all over the world. During my term, I developed the IDEAS membership policy, introduced regional representation and the youth membership fee.  I also introduced the Gender and Equity-Focused Evaluation IDEAS Thematic Interest Group (ITIG). I represented IDEAS in the EvalGender+ Management Group at EvalPartners Networks.  I introduced the Young and Emerging Evaluators Technical Working Group; and developed the Mentoring Young and Emerging Evaluators Policy, which set in motion the process of establishment of the Young and Emerging Evaluators ITIG. While serving on the IDEAS board, I was made coordinator of the Communication and Knowledge Management Task Group, as well as the Advocacy and Leadership Task Group of the EvalGender+ Global Network. This was between 2015 and 2017.  Between 2015 and 2016, I became the first Kenyan to serve as board member at the South African Monitoring and Evaluation Association. My achievements included: The development of the Membership Recognition and Awards Policy and the development of the Mentoring Young and Emerging Evaluators Policy.  Earlier, I had served on the board of the Evaluation Society of Kenya (ESK), where I was also the national treasurer. My achievements at the ESK included: Development of the ESK membership policy and introduction of sectoral representation, and streamlining the ESK financial reporting procedures and financial prudence.  I also enhanced the ESK resource mobilisation streams. Given my passion for the youth in the evaluation profession, I introduced the youth membership fee at Sh2,000 per year.   Haki Africa urges Gov't to declare sexual and gender-based violence a national disaster in Kenya  Transform Kenya-COVID-19 Impact on Women: Conversation with experts from GROOTS Kenya, ICRW | Part 2  Gender Based Violence on the rise as a result of stress and job loss; sexual violence more prevalent By Joackim Bwana | 15 minutes ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 45 minutes ago By Kamau Ngotho | 5 hours ago By Edward Buri | 5 hours ago