Nine Members of the Kilifi County Assembly have officially declared their support for Pamoja Africa Alliance (PAA) after abandoning ODM.  Led by Shimo la Tewa Member of County Assembly (MCA) Sammy Ndago, the administrators yesterday said they had abandoned the Orange party because the Coast region was organising itself to sit at the national negotiating table.   “We want to tell Baba that he is being misled by some leaders from Kilifi County that ODM is still popular, I want to tell him that we buried ODM long time ago,” he said.   The nine MCAs made their declaration at the county assembly on Thursday afternoon, while donning blue ties branded ‘PAA’ as a majority of their colleagues laughed off their move.     Raila to Musalia: Don’t oppose my Sh6,000-for-the-poor plan  Raila: Losers in ODM primaries mustn’t worry  Raila: There will be no sacred cows in ODM nominations  Ruto allies question Raila’s role in government At the Kilifi County Assembly, which has 35 elected MCAs, only nine have embraced Governor Amason Kingi’s party, PAA, while several others have remained reluctant to follow the new formation.   Kingi was stripped of ODM leadership in the region when he began agitating for what he termed as a national party with Coastal roots.  He was immediately replaced by Ganze MP, Teddy Mwambire, as the Kilifi ODM chairman and since then he has been whipping area MCAs to join his bandwagon.   Land issue  The MCAs on Kingi’s side include Ndago, Gilbert Peru of Sokoni ward, David Kadenge of Malindi town ward, Reuben Katana of Ganda ward, and Mae Mwadena of Rabai Kisurutini.  Others are Pascal Makanga of Mwanamwinga ward, Thomas Chengo of Tezo ward, Dickson Karani of Dabaso ward, John Mwamutsi of Kibarani, and Emmanuel Chai of Jaribuni ward.  Mwanamwinga ward MCA Pascal Makanga said ODM had failed to address the plight of the region, including land issue, blue economy and Mombasa port.   Makanga said in 2022, the region would be among those at the negotiating table in order to address the issues affecting residents.   “With our own party we shall have an equal negotiating opportunity as opposed to when we are in other people’s parties,” he said.   Last week, Governor Kingi and several other MCAs snubbed Raila Odinga’s Coast visit.   Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire, together with Senator Stewards Madzayo, Deputy Governor Gideon Saburi, Woman Representative Getrude Mbeyu and Devolution Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mung’aro had accompanied Raila on his tour, where at least 100 defectors from various political parties joined ODM.   “As I said three months ago, I will ensure that I recruit more members to the party, this is the first successful recruitment Baba,” Mwambire had said at the event.   During his visit, Raila toured Malindi town, Gede stage, Pwani University and Mtwapa town where he concluded his tour before flying to Kwale.  The return of Mung’aro to Raila’s fold has been viewed as a replacement of Governor Kingi. Raila also received at least 100 defectors from various parties to ODM at the Cleopatra grounds in Malindi town. Besides PAA, Deputy President William Ruto has also intensified his campaign in Kilifi County, and won hearts in the larger Coast region.   Pulpit Politics: ODM leader Raila Odinga welcomes move to ban politicians speaking in church  Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens  Wawaniaji wa nafasi ya Ugavana kaunti ya Mombasa kupitia chama cha ODM wajiandaa By Renson Mnyamwezi | 1 day ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 2 days ago By Bernard Sanga | 3 days ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 3 days ago Escaped convicts sat under trees and told us they were charcoal men