Deputy President William Ruto is on a three-day tour of the Nyanza Region. [File, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto says political parties seeking to project a national outlook should not be tribe-based.  Ruto was in Kisumu during a three-day tour of Nyanza counties as he seeks to broaden his national support base ahead of the 2022 General Election.  Speaking on Dholuo FM station, Nam Lolwe, on Wednesday, November 10, the DP said tribe-based political parties are recipes for disunity.  “You cannot run a tribal political party for 15 years [yet you claim it’s a national party],” the deputy president said.  Police: DP Ruto had been warned to avoid Kondele over tension  Youth stone DP William Ruto's motorcade in Kisumu   Basketball: Tongoi ready to help Lady Bucks survive relegation  Inside Nyanza’s fight against sickle cell “How would you run for the presidency, yet your political party has a tribal outlook?” he posed.  The DP reiterated his previous remarks, that he’ll run for the presidency on a United Democratic Alliance (UDA) ticket.  “[UDA’s] wheelbarrow symbol indicates that, as a party, we are committed to working for the people. I’m wondering why people are criticising UDA for adopting the wheelbarrow symbol, yet you’d hardly hear me faulting them for having oranges, lions and many other items as their party symbols,” he said.  In the interview, the DP said he would prioritise funding to the agriculture sector so as to revive the ailing sugar industry in Western Kenya.    During his first day of the Nyanza counties on Tuesday, November 9, Ruto told stakeholders at a meeting in Kisumu that he would place the low and middle-income earners at the core of his government operations.  The DP addressed Kisumu Central residents on Wednesday morning, with trips to Migori, Homa Bay and Siaya lined up between Wednesday and Thursday.   Nyanza clergy speak on Covid-19 guidelines imposed on the 13 counties  Government to take stringent measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the Lake region  NEW RED-ZONE? Spike in counties with low numbers with Kisumu registering new infections of Covid-19 By Jael Mboga | 1 hour ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 12 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 17 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 17 hours ago