Attorney General Paul Kihara Kariuki. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  The Attorney General and the Inspector General of Police have been summoned in court over the disappearance of a lawyer and an ex-convict.  High Court judge Anthony Murima directed AG Paul Kihara and IG Hillary Mutyambai to appear before the Milimani Law Courts on Thursday at 2pm.  The two will be required to confirm their positions on the disappearance of lawyer Hassan Nandwa on October 28.  Nandwa, a muslim scholar, disappeared hours after his client Elgiva Bwire, an ex-terror convict, was allegedly abducted.  IG Mutyambai orders investigation into killing of boda boda rider  AG seeks to join missing Belgian widow's Sh100m property case  Beware of get-rich-quick schemes, Mutyambai warns after ‘game of cons’ expose  Normalcy restored in Laikipia, Mutyambai says   “The two shall answer to their failure to comply with orders of this court issued on November 4,” ruled Murima.  Kihara and Mutyambai failed to produce the two as directed by the court after the police were linked to their disappearance.  They also failed to submit their responses or instruct lawyers to represent them as directed.  The court had also ordered Safaricom Ltd to produce mobile phone records for Nandwa from October 28 to November 2.  The Law Society of Kenya lawyer David Ayuo had urged the court to summon the officials.  “The petitioners’ lives are in grave danger, and the status of the missing person continues to breach their fundamental rights to life, liberty and security of persons,” reads the petition.  Nandwa was found on Monday morning dumped in Mwingi. Bwire is still missing.   A.G Paul Kihara files notice of appeal against the high court judgement that found BBI null and void  A.G on the Spot: BBI verdict exposes Attorney General, the Government has been losing legal battles  POLICE STATE? Concern over arrest of 3 senators on day of revenue formula vote By Jacinta Mutura | 4 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 4 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 4 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 4 hours ago