President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto were in a jovial mood at Bomas Of Kenya after they were endorsed by the Jubilee Party to run for a second term. [File, Standard]  MPs allied to President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party have planned major rallies in 35 counties in the build-up to the National Delegates Congress slated for November 30.  The party plans to conduct the delegates conference that seeks to kick out allies of Deputy President William Ruto from the ruling outfit and pave way for a new team allied to the Kieleweke wing.  In the plan finalised yesterday by the over 20 MPs in a meeting in Nairobi, the NDC will attract about 3,500 delegates including 100 each from 35 counties.    With about 270 days left to rule, Uhuru's options are wearing thin  Ruto’s D-day and intrigue around fall of VPs who came before him  Mount Kenya Foundation meets Asal leaders  Kiunjuri dismisses 'rumours' that DP Ruto will be kicked out of Jubilee at NDC Ruto has been crisscrossing the country popularising his United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party after a perceived fall-out with Uhuru that saw Ruto's allies purged from key parliamentary positions.  The MPs led by Nyeri Town legislator Wambugu Ngunjiri (pictured), will conduct a seven-day activation programme across the 35 counties beginning next week.  "We will go across the country activating our members ahead of the NDC where we will use the opportunity to clean the party of rebels and reinvigorate it ahead of 2022 General Elections. The caravan will begin a week before the NDC," said Ngunjiri.  Nyeri Town MP said the changes on the party will also affect the county and sub-county leaderships.  The first caravan tour will cover six counties of Laikipia, Nyeri, Murang'a, Kirinyaga, Kiambu and Nyandarua and in a move that seeks to clip the popularity of the DP and his Hustler nation narrative.  This will be followed by another of Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Embu and Nairobi in the second phase. Present in the meeting were MPs Kanini Kega (Kieni), Mugambi Njuki (Othaya), James Gichuhi (Tetu), John Munene (Kirinyaga Central), Jude Njomo(Kiambu), Kabinga Watayu (Mwea), Joseph Nduati (Gatanga) and Antony Kiai (Mukurwe-ini).  Others were Murang'a woman representative Sabina Chege, Nominated Senator Isaac Ngugi, Mercy Gakuya (Kasarani), Waihenya Ndirangu (Roysambu) and Joseph Manje (Kajiado North) among other MPs.  Three months ago, the leaders allied to Uhuru's ruling party resolved to revamp the party ahead of next year's polls and have lined up activities in the eight regions of the country.  A group of young and vibrant MPs now want to counter the spreading popularity of Ruto's UDA across the country and particularly slow down the Bottom-up campaign.   The meetings will be done under their strategy called dubbed Wanjiku Revolution. Through the Wanjiku Revolution narrative, the proponents under Jubilee Reloaded, hope to connect with the people and turn the tide for their once monolithic but now ailing party.  At the NDC, President Kenyatta allies will seek to have the logo and colours of the party changed as part of the relaunch.   Jubilee party to hold countrywide grassroot elections which will culminate to national elections  President Kenyatta on the spot over mini polls after Jubilee lost in 3 by-elections | HOUSE OF CARDS  UDA and People's Empowerment Party headed for collision with both eyeing vacant Kiambaa seat By Grace Ng'ang'a | 5 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 11 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 12 hours ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 22 hours ago