The middle-aged man was stupefied by the suspects, and his bank account emptied thereafter. [File, Standard]  A middle-aged man lost Sh1 million to two youthful women he recently met at a nightclub in Embakasi, Nairobi.  Police have since arrested one of the suspects aged 30. She was, on Monday evening, tracked down to her house in Kasarani.  The Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) said the victim was partying with his male friend, when the two “light-skinned” women arrived in the entertainment joint.  “The men beckoned them to join their table, but the beauties were hesitant and appeared not interested in their vibe. However, after a few minutes, they (women) changed their minds, much to the delight of the two men,” the DCI said on Twitter on Tuesday, November 9.  FKF Audit: Inspection must continue despite scare-mongering, Sakaja says  Supreme Court dismisses Sonko case, sets stage for Kananu swearing  Google doodle celebrates Kenya sign language founder Prof Okoth Okombo  NMS, revenue body launch digital payment system The four partied together until 4am, when they left the nightspot and booked a room at Rysta’s Guest House.  “However, once in the room, the victim’s colleague developed cold feet and staggered home, leaving his friend in the company of the two ladies,” the DCI said on Twitter.  The victim said he could only remember being given pieces of chicken by the women before passing out. He’d later regain consciousness while in hospital.  “He later learnt that the ladies had taken off with his mobile phone, ATM and identity card. To further exacerbate his woes, he discovered that over Sh1 million had been withdrawn from his mobile and bank accounts,” the DCI said.  Upon being discharged from hospital, the victim filed a report with the DCI, seeking to recover his lost money.  “Backed up by cybercrime detectives, the sleuths profiled one of the suspects and pounced on her last evening (Monday, November 8) in Kasarani, Nairobi county,” said the DCI.  The suspect will be arraigned on Tuesday, November 9, as search for her accomplice continues, police said.  “She will answer to charges of stealing contrary to section 268 as read with section 275 of the Penal Code,” said the DCI.  Authorities established that the suspects stupefied their victim before stealing his valuables.   CROSSFIRE Magara & Pamela Odhiambo faceoff on Coalitions, economic models, UhuRuto, & Raila politics  40th Sharjah International Book fair currently underway in UAE  14 people killed following a 2 day cattle raid in Samburu county By Paul Ogemba | 6 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 17 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 21 hours ago By Macharia Kamau | 1 day ago