Deputy President William Ruto addresses Nyamira Magwagwa residents in Nyamira county on 2/11/2021. [Sammy Omingo,Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto's allies say other presidential candidates are being forced to back Raila Odinga because of the strong UDA wave across the country.  Speaking at Kekopey in Gilgil, they asked Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka, and Moses Wetang’ula not to be coerced te ODM   Ruto attended a church service in Kikopey, Gilgil constituency, where he also welcomed area MP Martha Wangari to UDA.  He was accompanied by MPs Susan Kihika (Nakuru), Jayne Kihara (Naivasha), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), George Koimburi (Juja), George Kariuki (Ndia), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira) and Faith Gitau(Nyandarua).  Mudavadi urges youth to form anti-graft vigilante groups   Raila says sealing graft loopholes will aid his Sh6,000 stipend for the poor  Ruto got it wrong, Kenya is notorious for killing political parties  Shahbal jolts Joho's succession matrix Others were Lizah Chelule (Nakuru), David Gikaria (Nakuru Town East), Patrick Wainaina (Thika Town) and Ben Washiali (Mumias East).  They said the party leaders were experienced politicians who can make informed choices.   They further noted that Raila had for a long time tricked them into supporting him but never kept his promises.   Nyoro said they were aware of the tribulations Mudavadi, Kalonzo and Wetang’ula were going through to vacate their aspirations for Raila in 2022.   “Do not bow to pressure. Press on and ensure that you stick to the wishes of the people,” said the Kiharu MP.   “He (Odinga) is tired. He has no agenda for uplifting the poor,” he claimed.  Ruto welcomed leaders who want to work with the United Democratic Alliance to transform Kenya.  He said he would join forces with all leaders who believe in the uplifting of millions of underprivileged Kenyans.   “We are ready to partner with those who believe in our agenda,” he said adding that the country was facing massive economic pressure that called on leaders to pull together to tame the rising cost of living.   “If they are ready, let them come and work with us. Our priority is in investing in projects that will create at least four million jobs for the youth,” he added.     The Mathira MP said it was time the Government appreciated that most Kenyans were for issues-based, people-centred politics under Ruto.   “Do not overwork Raila,” he added.   Koimburi said intimidation from State cannot shape Kenya’s politics.   “My victory in the Juja by-election validated the fact that the power of poor Kenyans is superior to that of the people in power. It is Ruto who stands the best chance to better our country,” he told the congregation.   His sentiments were supported by Ms Kihika who said that the Hustler Nation wave is unbeatable.   “It is irresistible. We welcome all leaders to work with us in meeting the aspirations of the people.”   While welcoming Gilgil MP to the Hustler Nation, Ms Gitau asked Mr Odinga to come up with a sustainable plan that will change Kenya for the better.  “We cannot drive our economic growth on stipends and handouts,” added Mr Wainaina.  Mr Washiali said UDA was widely accepted in the country because of its progressive Bottom-Up Economic Model.   CROSSFIRE Magara & Pamela Odhiambo faceoff on Coalitions, economic models, UhuRuto, & Raila politics  40th Sharjah International Book fair currently underway in UAE  14 people killed following a 2 day cattle raid in Samburu county By Mireri Junior | 4 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 9 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 10 hours ago By Philip Muasya | 11 hours ago