Ndhiwa police station where a 38-year-old man was detained after being arrested for allegedly defiling “his 15-year-old daughter. [James Omoro, Standard]  A 30-year-old bodaboda rider who fled to Tanzania after an alleged murder incident in Homa Bay County will be arraigned in court on Monday.  The bodaboda rider is accused of being a hard core criminal and the prime suspect in the killing of Homa Bay businessman, Joseph Ouma Obote.  The suspect reportedly killed Obote at Oridi village, Ndhiwa Sub-county in January this year.  He disappeared and sought asylum in Tanzania where he has been before returning to Kenya to the neighbouring Suba South Sub-county.  Plan to save boda boda riders from swell of accidents  MP donates 250 motorbikes to empower youth  Boda boda: The good, the bad and ugly all in a decade  Tanzania clears its capital arrears in Shelter Afrique Police from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) managed to arrest him on Saturday. Ndhiwa Sub-county DCI Commander Paul Makonge said the suspect is alleged to have hit Obote with a blunt object in a robbery with violence incident.  Obote died on the spot before the suspect stole his motorbike and other valuables.  Makonge said that the suspect is a hardcore criminal who has been carrying out various criminal activities in the region.  “He used to steal and threatened to kill anyone who came out to reveal to police his criminal acts,” said Makonge.  The suspect was in constant communication with one of the police officers at Ndhiwa Police Station whom he requested to destroy his case file at a reward of Sh50,000.  The police office tricked the suspect into a meeting after which he was arrested. “They were going to hold the meeting at Kalamindi Trading Centre where he was arrested and taken to Ndhiwa police station,” Makonge added.  Makonge said they were finalising interrogation of the suspect so that they take him to court on Monday.   Mikakati inawekwa kulainisha uhusiano kati ya nchi ya Kenya na Tanzania  Maandamano Nanderema, Murang'a wakwamia BBI, Maisha ya Uzeeni Tanzania | MBIU YA KTN (Sehemu ya 2)  President Suluhu will on Tuesday begin a two-day State visit on the invitation of President Kenyatta By Jael Mboga and Kamore Maina | 1 hour ago By Fidelis Kabunyi | 1 hour ago By Daniel Chege | 3 hours ago By Wainaina Ndung’u | 3 hours ago