Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i . [File, Standard]  The Government has dismissed a gazette notice making the rounds on social media, stating that tomorrow (Thursday, November 4) will be a public holiday to mark Diwali.  The Interior Ministry, via its Twitter handle, on Wednesday marked the notice as fake.  “The Government has not declared a public holiday on Thursday, November 4, 2021. The purported gazette notice declaring [tomorrow as] a holiday is fake,” said the ministry.     Monday declared public holiday to mark Utamaduni Day  Government declares Tuesday, July 20 a public holiday  Matiang’i declares Friday a Public Holiday  Matiang’i declares Monday a public holiday The Government HAS NOT declared a public holiday on THURSDAY NOV 4, 2021. The purported gazette notice declaring a holiday is FAKE! pic.twitter.com/dJ9qLkuriP — Ministry of Interior (@InteriorKE) November 3, 2021    Diwali, a holiday celebrated by Hindus globally, lasts five days, and usually falls in the months of October or November of every year.  The name is derived from the Sanskrit term dipavali, meaning “row of lights,” which are lit on the new-moon night to invite the presence of Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth.  It is meant to be a celebration of “good triumphing over evil”, and a day to worship the gods and goddesses of prosperity.  During Diwali, the Hindu faithful light small oil lamps at home called diyas. Adding to the lights, are fireworks that light up the sky. However, the Kenyan Government only allows fireworks and firecrackers at set hours of the day, and they are not to be set off in residential zones.  The festival also involves families, friends and business associates, who exchange gifts and sweets, settle old business deals and commit to overcoming hate, anger or jealousy.  In Kenya, the Indian population is one per cent, suggesting why the celebration is not extended to the rest of the citizens.   February 11 declared a public holiday, to give Kenyans to mourn departed former President Daniel Moi  Matinag'i declares Tuesday 11th February public holiday following the death of Moi  Wananchi wa Garissa washerehekea Moi Day By Moses Nyamori | 30 minutes ago By Winfrey Owino | 30 minutes ago By Willis Oketch | 30 minutes ago By Joackim Bwana | 30 minutes ago