Baringo Senator Gideon Moi was among the mourners who paid their last respects to former Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) Managing Director Gideon Kibet Toroitich who was laid to rest at his Eldama Ravine home yesterday.  Family members, relatives, friends, and leaders remembered Mr Toroitich as a caring figure who impacted the lives of many and as a committed public servant.  Toroitich died on October 21, 2021, after a short illness. He is said to have complained of chest pains before he died at his Milimani home in Nakuru.  The family recalled how the Toroitich travelled from Mogotio to Nakuru on the day he fell ill. He was in the company of his siblings.    Gideon: We'll offer free education, reduce taxes  OKA leaders kick off campaigns in Kakamega  OKA rocked by suspicion over Mudavadi's planned coalition  OKA principals to begin two day tour of Western Mr Moi said he admired the Toroitich for his humility and the way he impacted the lives of many.  “What he did to mankind is manifested in the people who are all here today. He touched many lives across the country. He assisted all and changed people's lives for the better while at the helm of AFC,” the senator said.  Deputy Governors Erick Korir (Nakuru), Baringo's Jacob Chepkwony, MPs Patrick Musimba (Kibwezi West), Daniel Tuitoek (Mogotio), Mosses Lessonet (Eldama Ravine), Wildlife and Tourism Principal Secretary Fred Segor and Kabarak University Vice-chancellor Prof Henry Kiplagat were also present.  Others present were Eunice Moi, Kanu Secretary-General Nick Salat and Kanu National Executive Council member Gordon Ogola.  Toroitich joined AFC in 1967 as a field officer and rose through the ranks to the position of MD in which he served between 1987 and 2003.  It was during his leadership that AFC’s infrastructure was transformed with a new network of branches countrywide bringing quality facilities closer to farmers countrywide.  In retirement, he ventured into the hospitality industry and opened Hotel Cathay in Nakuru.  Moi delivered messages of condolences to the family of Toroitich from President Uhuru Kenyatta, Cyrus Jirongo, ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula.  Mr Jirongo said he was close to Toroitich to the extent that he bought land from him in Kitale. He said the farm continues to sustain him.  “In all the functions of the Moi family, Toroitich was a master of ceremonies and he did all the planning,” Moi said.  Deputy Governor Chepkwony said they are proud of the life Toroitich lived. He said if there was anything to emulate from Toroitich is his entrepreneurial skills.  “He did a lot to transform our farmers. We have lost a person so dear to us, a person who immensely contributed to the well-being of the people,” said Mr Chepkwony.  Nakuru deputy governor Korir said a road in Nakuru will be named after Torotich, to honour him for making Nakuru his home and leaving landmark in the area.  “We will name one of the roads after him. He was an industrious man who made a mark in society. He did the very best in his career,” said the deputy governor.  Lessonet called on those holding public office to emulate Toroitich.   Seneta Gideon Moi aelezea matumaini yake kuwa mahakama itatoa uamuzi bora kuhusu mchakato wa BBI  Seneta Gideon Moi awaonya wanakandarasi baada ya mradi wa ujenzi kukuwama | MBIU WIKENDI Sehemu ya 2  Senator Gideon Moi calls upon the Mt. Kenya region leaders to join the One Kenya Alliance By Augustine Oduor | 2 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 11 hours ago By Beldeen Waliaula | 11 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 11 hours ago