Ford Kenya pick its presidential candidate and national officials tomorrow (Thursday) during a National Delegates Congress (NDC) in Nairobi.  But a splinter faction has advertised a similar exercise at Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani on Saturday.  According to an advert in local dailies, the party led by Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula will pick new officials after conducting grassroots elections.  A notice signed by Deputy Secretary-General Millicent Abudho noted that "pursuant to the resolutions of the relevant organs of the party and in accordance with, among others, Articles 19 and 25 of the party constitution, a National Delegates Congress meeting has been convened and scheduled to be held on 4th November, 2021 at Bomas of Kenya, Nairobi starting 8.30am."  Abudho asked delegates wishing to attend virtually to place their request in writing to the party secretariat and that technological arrangements have been made.  What way Mt Kenya? Governors differ on presidential candidate  Lawmakers now seek to allow use of nicknames on the ballot paper  Elders, politicians: Genuine blessings or milch cow affairs?  It costs one up to Sh500,000 for an elaborate kaya anointing ceremony The NDC, Ms Abidho noted would elect national officials, nominate a party presidential candidate, review and or ratify, policies and rules of the party and decisions of the other organs of the party.  The meeting would also consider, review and or amend the party constitution.  Last week, the faction led by Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi also advertised their NDC at Kasarani on Saturday.  However, a letter by Sports Kenya Director General Pius Metto noted that they would not allow the Wamunyinyi faction to hold a meeting because of a court order.  "The purpose of this letter is to notify your esteemed office that your request to use the Indoor Arena-Auditorium has not been granted on the grounds of a Court Order issued to your esteemed office, barring Ford-Kenya from holding any public meetings," read Metto's letter.  The letter REF: SK/BOG/04 VOL.XIV (151) added; "It has also come to our notice that you went ahead and informed the Public through print media of your intent to hold the delegates meeting at Kasarani without our consent to your request letter," read the letter."  jngetich@standardmedia.co.ke      Exploring the preparedness and the key timeliness of the IEBC to conduct the 2022 General Elections  Muungano wa NASA umevunjika rasmi baada ya ANC, Wiper na Ford Kenya kutangaza kujiondoa kwao  Ford Kenya stamps it's authority as Majimbo Kalasinga wins the Kabuchai parliamentary by-elections By Ndungu Gachane | 30 minutes ago By Brian Otieno and Jacob Ng'etich | 30 minutes ago By Julius Chepkwony | 30 minutes ago By Fidelis Kabunyi | 30 minutes ago