Newly constructed ICU building at Kangundo level 4 Hospital [Erastus Mulwa, Standard]  The Health Department plans to open an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at the Kangundo Level Four Hospital.  Health and Emergency Services Executive, Ancent Kituku said they were in the final stages of unveiling the facility, which is expected to ease the burden of managing severe cases at the Machakos Level Five Hospital.  Dr Kituku said the equipment for the six-bed unit have already been bought and are awaiting installation as soon as the contractor completes final fittings.  Kituku said the county government was also improving human resources capacity to sustain growing demand for specialised care.  Worry as Covid-19 patients spend more time in ICU  Woman in ICU after being mauled by neighbour's dogs  1,086 admitted as 705 more test positive for Covid-19  1,311 admissions as 497 test positive for Covid-19   “Setting up an ICU facility is a very expensive undertaking, which requires proper planning and execution. We intend to build a reliable and efficient human resource capacity that will ensure the desired services are offered in all our health institutions,” he said.  Last month, Governor Alfred Mutua toured the hospital to inspect the progress of the ICU, which he said was part of his government’s agenda to improve healthcare services.  “My administration recognises the need for quality and timely healthcare service delivery and we are sparing no efforts or resources to ensure that our people get what they deserve because health is critical to quality life,” said Dr Mutua.  Kangundo Level Four Hospital is the second largest public healthcare institution in the county, and has been reeling under pressure due to the high number of patients.  The facility covers Kangundo, Matungulu, Mwala and parts of Yatta sub-counties.   KTN Prime: A milestone for Conjoined twins and KNH doctors as they perform a miraculous surgery By Muriithi Mugo | 1 day ago By Muriithi Mugo | 2 days ago By Phares Mutembei | 5 days ago By Muriithi Mugo | 7 days ago