Outgoing Chairman Jackson Kiptanui. [Christopher Kipsang, Standard]  Kerio Valley Development Authority has ushered in a new chairman Mark Chesergon following his appointment by President Uhuru Kenyatta last month.  Outgoing chairman Jackson Kiptanui, whose tenure ended in July, handed over to Chesergon in a brief ceremony at the KVDA towers in Eldoret Town on Monday.  Mr Kiptanui said that during his three-year term, the board embarked on various activities, which he hoped would be completed under the new leadership.  “I am proud of the programmes we have undertaken in the one term I was in office. As I hand over, I encourage the incoming chair to continue with the pending projects and ensure they are complete and functional,” he said.  Relief for farmers as KVDA starts processing mango in Kerio Valley  Italian firm blames lands body, KVDA for dams scandal  Irrigation projects stall as floods, locusts strike  New KVDA boss has a full in-tray in R Valley   The projects he mentioned as key, and hoped the new administration would give priority, are the automated machines for mango and honey, and the irrigation programmes in various arid areas.  Chesergon, who expressed joy at his appointment, promised to continue with the pending projects and ensure the authority remained as the leading parastatal development agency in the North Rift region.  Vow to work  “I thank the President for appointing me and vow to work with my colleagues towards realising the aims and objectives of the regional development agency that seeks to help locals from various counties,” said Chesergon.  Sammy Naporos, the agency’s Managing Director, said they were faced with another serious problem; drought in parts of the region.  “We are working towards dealing with the issues through various programmes meant for drought mitigation, pasture development and irrigation schemes that will help in food security,” said Mr Naporos.  The authority has started drilling 11 boreholes worth Sh100 million for residents of Turkana North and Samburu North.   Chesergon was appointed through a gazette notice on October 29. Before his appointment, the President had revoked the appointment of Andrew Kiplagat as chairperson, three weeks after he was given the job.  KVDA is the lead government development agency in the region, covering eight counties.   KVDA set to rehabilitate key West Pokot irrigation schemes that were destroyed by floods  The clergy condemn rampant graft in Kenya  Happening Now: Dams scandal probe: Ex-KVDA managing director in court By Michael Saitoti | 4 hours ago By Titus Too | 4 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 4 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 7 hours ago