President Uhuru Kenyatta has expressed Kenya’s readiness to diversify its partnerships in the ongoing revival and upgrading of the country’s railways system.  The President said Transnet Engineering Company, a state-owned South African manufacturer of railway components including freight wagons, locomotives and passenger coaches, could partner with Kenya Railways in the ongoing revamp of the country's railway infrastructure.   “The advanced engineering that is taking place here is a clear indication that Transnet can be a leading partner in working together with other African countries to restore their rail-stock. We look forward to working with you as we move towards fast tracking the restoration of our railway system,” President Kenyatta said.  The President spoke yesterday when he toured the Transnet Engineering’s factory in Koedoespoort, Pretoria on the final day of his three-day State Visit to South Africa.    Come help us revamp our rail system, President Kenyatta invites South African firm  Increase Kenya’s forest cover to 10 per cent by 2022, Uhuru urges  Uhuru, Ramaphosa sign eight trade deals  Ruto: Uhuru betrayed me, 8 million Kenyans  Noting that Kenya and South Africa are large economies in their respective regions, the Head of State said the enhanced partnership in the improvement of railway systems would boost the economies of other countries in the East African Community and the Southern African Development Community respectively.  President Kenyatta emphasised that the development of a robust railway system would help fast track the integration of the African continent by facilitating the movement of people, goods and services at affordable costs.   “We need this interconnectivity to be able to facilitate that movement and the only way we can do that is by bringing the corporations responsible for transport to partner and start developing these rails, roads, sea and air linkages in our respective countries,” President Kenyatta said.  The President, who was accompanied Transport CS James Macharia, was conducted on the tour by South African Public Enterprise Minister Pravin Jamnadas Gordhan and Transnet Engineering CEO Ralph Mills.   Has Kenya gotten devolution, right? Is it time for an adjustment or Should the country soldier on?  Reigning champion Carl Tundo registers 4th win of the season after victory in Thika Rally  Wazalendo Hockey team ready for the Africa cup of club champions in Ghana By Paul Ogemba | 25 minutes ago By Brian Otieno | 25 minutes ago By Kamau Muthoni | 25 minutes ago By Paul Ogemba | 25 minutes ago Why Ruto wants Chief Justice Koome out of 2022 polls team