Festus Musyoka and two others sustained gunshot wounds after an altercation at Quiver Lounge on Thika Road. [File, Standard]  Festus Musyoka, a Starehe DCI officer who was shot during an altercation at Quiver Lounge on Thika Road has died while undergoing treatment.  While confirming the death, Starehe DCI boss Daniel Musangi said “his officer passed on at Nairobi West Hospital where he was undergoing treatment”.  “The main suspect, in this case, is highly likely to be arraigned on murder charges anytime, as a result of the death,” Musangi told The Standard.  The incident occurred on July 2, after an alleged tiff over who was the bonafide boyfriend of a youthful woman turned into a fight, complete with an exchange of gunfire.  Quiver Lounge shooting suspect released on Sh5m bail or Sh10m bond  Trader denies shooting 2 officers and waitress at Nairobi night club  Quiver Lounge shooting suspect released on Sh5m bail or Sh10m bond  Trader denies shooting 2 officers and waitress at Nairobi night club The exchange of fire involved a civilian gunman, who is alleged to have shot the three who later on surrendered to the police.  The suspect, Dickson Njanja Mararo, has not been arraigned since the incident took place four months ago, as detectives sought more time to complete the investigation.  Musyoka sustained gunshot wounds on his neck alongside his colleague from Kasarani’s petty crime unit, Lawrence Muturi who was shot in the hand.    A woman, identified as Nzisa also sustained gunshot wounds in the abdomen.  Earlier reports had indicated that the two officers were involved in a scuffle over a woman.  However, CCTV footage showed Mararo approaching the two officers’ table and confronted them over an unknown issue.  The footage shows him firing rounds of ammunition then escaping using his Toyota Land Cruiser which he had parked outside the joint.  By Pkemoi Ngenoh | 1 hour ago By  Nzau Musau | 1 day ago By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 4 days ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 4 days ago Speaker Justin Muturi on Uhuru, Raila 'secret pact'