The best way to solve the whole puzzle on corruption is to sanitize the value system and redefine it to fit the behavioural and cultural absurdities that cleanse and uphold it.  It would be easy to talk about what fuels corruption that’s greed and need among others but we forget to mention what sires corruption which to me remains and will remain the rotten value system.  If you bribe your daughter to stop crying is that need or greed?  If you lie to be affirmed is that greed or need?  CS, former IEBC officials linked to election materials tender wars  Kisumu traders have case to answer in Sh79m sugar fraud case  Elders, politicians: Genuine blessings or milch cow affairs?  Will Uhuru anti-graft hammer stop Ruto or strengthen him? Let us preach the right virtues and live by them that’s the only way out of corruption. It’s the only thing each of us practices on daily basis but still hate others for practising it better.  There is no theory about it. Until we sacrifice to be the martyrs of good values that our next generation will cherish to inherit, let us start living by the right values from homes, workplaces etc.   It is a difficult journey considering those we appreciate for the position of mentors and role models are unfortunately compromised. Some even celebrate and canonise us when we tread on the wheel of corruption.  Case in point, a ‘thief’ is appreciated with a noble job for ‘noble theft’ in a political context. We should shun this by action through churning out good values in all tendencies.  We will win if we stop pretending we are saints and others are sinners or demons.  We will write several articles on corruption cases, but until we become the change we want to see, the rest will be absurd theatrics in its cull de sac.  Lead by example remembering it all falls and rises in leadership.  The writer, Dennis Owuor Okello, is a health practitioner. Dennisokello520@yahoo.com      Dr. Mukhisa Kituyi: We must slay the monster of corruption to save Kenya  DPP Noordin Haji wants the court to lockout MPs representing clients in corruption cases  "Dictionary yake haikuwa na neno corruption", Mzee Matundura remembers Simeon Nyachae By Razwana Rana-Kimutai | 25 days ago By Agnetta Okwemba | 1 month ago By Agencies | 1 month ago By Njoroge Waweru | 1 month ago