In Isiolo six weeks ago, I spoke to people in Shambani, just one community from a county at the forefront of a drought that is affecting over 2.1 million people. They knew that keeping their animals there for pasture could destroy the environment they rely on. But they had no choice, like many communities who face a harsh fight to survive.  The people of Shambani showed me how climate change is a daily reality in Kenya, and across East Africa. Despite bearing almost none of the historic responsibility for the carbon emissions which have caused climate change, Kenya is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to its effects.  Nations like the UK have reaped the benefits of industrialisation and pollution for generations - there is no shying away from that. Now we have a duty to support developing countries grow their economies and create jobs in a green and sustainable way – and adapt to the very real impacts of climate.  In the last three years, the UK has spent Sh22 billion on helping tackle climate change in Kenya, and we have committed to doubling the amount we spend combatting climate change in developing countries. We are also pushing other developed countries to do their duty and deliver the Sh4 trillion of climate finance that was pledged to the world’s poorest six years ago in Paris.  Africa needs renewable energy shift to tackle crisis  Kenya to be Africa's voice on climate change at the UN Security Council, President Uhuru says   Uhuru Kenyatta asks for an increase of climate financing at COP26  The start of COP26 Today, that effort goes up a gear with the start of a climate change conference in Glasgow, COP26; a turning point for humanity. This is the biggest ever Summit in the UK, with around 10,000 attendees, and 140 world leaders, including President Uhuru Kenyatta. It is the moment to take collective action on the biggest issue facing our generation.  Climate change is central to Kenya and the UK’s friendship. Last November, we launched a joint Year of Climate Action in the run up to COP26. In the 12 months since, I have seen the destruction from the rising of Lake Baringo, the people and pastures affected by the drought facing Northern counties, and communities in Kibera at the sharp end of climate change.  Science tells us that even if we stop emissions today, extreme events will become even more common. Droughts and flooding which devastate lives and leads to conflict for resources. A warmer Kenya means areas like central Kenya could become malaria zones. Kenya’s precious wildlife will decrease.  But among this, I have also seen hope. That hope is driven by Kenya and Kenyans leading the country to adapt to climate change. From Isiolo to Baringo, Mandera to Kwale, I have met with activists who are championing climate action. We all have a lot to learn from Kenya, powered almost exclusively by renewable energy – a model for the rest of the world.  So what does the next two weeks mean for wananchi? It means changing the course of the future for the farmers facing crop losses because of the droughts and floods, ensuring food and resource security, ensuring families don’t have to relocate because water levels rise, and halting and reversing the decrease in Kenya’s forest cover.  To do that, the headline goals are to keep the planet’s temperature below 1.5 degrees. To make adaptation a daily reality. To close the finance gap. That’s why hitting the Sh4 trillion global climate finance per year target is so important.  Ms Marriott is UK High Commissioner to Kenya. @JaneMarriottUK   Climate Change: Kiambu county holds harvest festival, an initiative to beef up food security  Environmental Effects of Covid-19: A Discussion with Isaac Kalua Green  Anger boils as floods sweep across the country By Babere Chacha | 1 hour ago By Faridah Hussein Were  | 8 hours ago By Suleiman Shahbal | 8 hours ago By Editorial | 8 hours ago