National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi who is also the Democratic Party of Kenya presidential aspirant in Nyeri on October 26, 2021. [Mose Sammy, Standard]  A tweet claiming National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has been hospitalised is fake.  The tweet by @CisNyakundi claims that Muturi, who has also declared his ambition to vie for president, has been rushed to the MP Shah Hospital in a Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS) ambulance for treatment for an unspecified illness. It also claims that heavy security has been deployed to the hospital on account of Muturi's admission.  "National Assembly Speaker & Presidential Aspirant Justin Muturi rushed to MP Shah Hospital in an NMS Ambulance. Heavy security around the area," the tweet sent on Wednesday afternoon stated.  The tweet had been retweeted 66 times and had attracted 12 comments and 227 likes.  I’m worth Sh300m – Speaker Justin Muturi  Nairobi collects paltry Sh1.4b in first quarter as new system launched  Speaker Justin Muturi to resign from three international organisations  Uncertainty over Badi fate six months to the expiry of NMS’s term However, the claims are fake.  To verify the information, we contacted Muturi who explained that he sustained a muscle injury after straining his arm while picking his phone off the floor.  "I have been feeling some pain in my right arm since the incident a few months back, the pain is not excruciating but sometimes, it takes me a few attempts before I raise or wave with the hand, maybe its a muscle strain, I needed to check with the orthopaedics," said Muturi.   The National Assembly, through its verified Twitter account, dismissed the report as misinformation.  "This is Fake News, Such an unfortunate rumour. The @SpeakerJBMuturi is as fit as a fiddle," the tweet said.  Further, at the time the reports were circulating, Muturi was presiding over the afternoon session of the National Assembly.  One of the comments on the tweet suggested that Muturi had indeed been to the hospital but had driven himself there.   Speaker Justin Muturi defends the Kikuyu council of elders that installed him as Mt. Kenya spokesman  Spika Justin Muturi amejitokeza waziwazi kutetea wazee wa Njuri Ncheke dhidi ya shutuma dhidi yao  Speaker Justin Muturi's new role elicits mixed reaction from leaders & people from Mt. Kenya region By Muriithi Mugo | 35 minutes ago By Mireri Junior | 13 hours ago By Phares Mutembei | 15 hours ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 1 day ago Broke Kenyans, campaign season a big threat to economic recovery