Kenya will access some Sh29.4 billion from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to help with its budgetary needs including the fight against Covid-19.   This is after IMF staff and Kenyan authorities reached an agreement on some of the conditions of a Sh256 billion programme whose objective is to improve the country's financial position.  Should the IMF's executive board approve the staff-level agreement, Kenya will have received a total of Sh109.7 billion.  "The authorities have remained firmly committed to their economic programme in this complex environment,” said the IMF in a statement, noting that the government outperformed on their fiscal target for the financial year 2020-21.  Debt lessons from EABL’s oversubscribed bond issue  Looking for a loan? These are Kenya’s priciest and cheapest banks   How to check if you are listed on CRB  HELB: We will not turn student loans into grants The global lender said the country’s tax collection revenue has improved, offering the National Treasury essential resources that will see it cut down on its borrowing needs.  The three-year programme is aimed at improving the country’s public finances by increasing tax revenues and reducing spending, especially non-essential spending. This will result in the narrowing of the gap between the country’s tax revenues and its spending budget- what is technically known as fiscal deficit.  The programme will also see some limping state corporations restructured in what is likely to result in the retrenchment of civil servants as some of the state bodies are merged, privatised or just killed.  A lot of corporations, including Kenya Power and Kenya Airways are under surgery as part of the conditions.  The IMF noted that although Kenya’s economic recovery continued as the country intensified its vaccinations against Covid-19, it noted that drought in the northern parts of the country and emerging security threats are likely to slow this rebound.     Kenyans take to social media to react to IMF loans | HOT TOPICS  Mwanaharakati Edwin Kiama ashtakiwa kuhusu mtandao, adaiwa kuchochea suala la IMF  Mahangaiko Ya Mikopo: Maoni ya Wakenya huku wengi wakisumbuliwa na madeni By Jackline Inyanji | 5 hours ago By Macharia Kamau | 1 day ago By Paul Ogemba | 1 day ago By Patrick Alushula | 1 day ago