Police in Naivasha are pursuing a motorcycle operator suspected of killing a pillion passenger.  The operator, who has since gone into hiding, beat to death the 32-year-old casual labourer on Sunday evening after a disagreement over Sh70 fare.  “We are still looking for the motorcycle operator who beat his passenger to death in Kayole estate. It’s only a matter of time before we get him,” said Naivasha OCPD Samuel Waweru.  The victim, who was leaving a local bar located on the highway, had asked the rider to ferry him to his home at around 9 pm.  John Kimani, a witness, said that upon arriving at his home, the deceased could not remember his M-Pesa pin, leading to a confrontation with the operator.  Plan to save boda boda riders from swell of accidents  Long wait for justice: Isahakia community continues to suffer  Two die in Karai car crash  Prisoners want to be fully involved in voting for President “In the process, the operator decided to take the drunk passenger to the Karai police post, but they disagreed further, leading to a fight,” he said.  According to Kimani, the operator left the deceased unconscious, only for the body to be found on Monday morning by his kin.  And in Maella, Naivasha, a man is fighting for his life in hospital after he was attacked by a close friend for allegedly winking at his wife.  The 22-year-old is admitted to the Naivasha sub-County Hospital with deep wounds on the head, back and head.  The two were allegedly having a drink in one of the bars when the suspect turned against the victim, accusing him of having an affair with his wife.  A witness, Alfred Kamanja, said the two were first engaged in a heated war of words before the suspect rushed out of the bar.  “He came back wielding a machete and ended up slashing his friend several times,” he said.  The OCPD said they arrested one suspect in connection with the Maella attack.   Serikali ya kaunti ya Nakuru yatoa pendekezo la kuzuia uvuvi katika ziwa Naivasha  Uvuvi Haramu Naivasha: Wavuvi haramu wanatumia vifaa vibovu, baadhi ni neti zilizopigwa marufuku  Mwanamme ajaribu kujitoa uhai Naivasha, alikata koo kwa kigae cha chupa By Nikko Tanui | 9 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 11 hours ago By James Munyeki | 14 hours ago By Martin Ndiema | 1 day ago