Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa and her Kiharu counterpart Ndindi Nyoro. [File, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto’s allies have taken a swipe at President Uhuru Kenyatta’s recent remarks and the proposed ouster of the DP and his political allies from the Jubilee Party.  Their remarks come barely a week since President Uhuru while touring Kiambu County last week, said he would not leave the country to a thief who would sabotage the progress made by the last two regimes.  Speaking in Gatanga and in what seemed like a calculated response to the president’s remarks, Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa asked the Head of State to leave the country under the person who will win the next polls.  “His job is not to decide who takes over. He is only expected to hand over the instruments of power to the one elected by Kenyans. Nothing more concerns him,” Jumwa said.  Political fishers of men  Ruto calls Jubilee dying party and says too ready to dump it for UDA  Tension in Lokichoggio following militia raids  Kenya to lead resource mobilization efforts for climate change mitigation in Africa Shortly after her sentiments, she declared that she was going to vie for the Kilifi Governor seat on a UDA ticket in next year’s polls.  Additionally, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro suggested that Jubilee be disbanded to give room for everyone to settle in their new political camps.  “The people announcing our departure from Jubilee are ODM members. No one is left in that (Jubilee) party. I suggest everyone gets back their shares from Jubilee so that we go to our new parties. For us (people from Mt Kenya region) we have taken our shares to UDA,” Nyoro suggested.  On Monday, November 1, The Standard learnt that the Jubilee party was seeking to revoke Ruto’s membership and consequently throw him out as the deputy party leader.  Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju said talks with the president on a date for the top party organ meeting were underway.  “We are preparing for our National Delegates Conference, which is the highest organ of the party. It is for that reason that we decided to have a broader deliberation that involves the NMC and parliamentary leadership,” he said.  Despite his allies’ utterances, the DP, who has been holding rallies in  Kajiado and Kisii land addressed neither the president nor the recent events in the Jubilee Party but instead focused his attacks on the handshake, BBI and his political competitor Raila Odinga.  He chose to reiterate his Bottom-Up Economic model, which he now says will include President Uhuru’s big four agenda.  Ruto’s political camp met with members of the public at Gatunyu Grounds, Murang’a County, at the launch of the Wakili Edward Muriu Pesa Mfukoni Bursary Fund for learners in Gatanga Constituency.   NEWSHOUR A look at the 2022 polls, OKA & UhuRuto bitter sweet relationship through Fred Gumo's eyes  How a 24-year-old lady has managed to make her strawberry farm produce 45000Kgs every season  NSSF bets big on ISO certification to offer better services to Kenyans By Ndungu Gachane | 30 minutes ago By Brian Otieno and Jacob Ng'etich | 30 minutes ago By Julius Chepkwony | 30 minutes ago By Fidelis Kabunyi | 30 minutes ago