Veteran Health and Science journalist Gatonye Gathura, who went missing on October 26, 2021, has been found dead.  Gathura’s body was traced to Naivasha Sub-County Referral Hospital morgue.  Police say that on October 26 the body was booked at the facility as an “unknown male adult”.  Authorities further say Gathura’s body had been found dumped on the Naivasha-Mai Mahiu Road on the day he was reported missing.  After a month of being preserved at Naivasha morgue as an “unknown male adult”, the Registrar of Persons used finger prints to establish his identity on Thursday.  Mai Mahiu population to rise as infrastructural development pick  Gangsters in Naivasha kill popular trader and steal money from women’s group  Prosecution fails to link suspect in murder of inmate to weapon  Concerns in Naivasha as students smoke bhang in public Police said Gathura might have been strangled. A copper wire was found around his neck, when his body was retrieved from the roadside in Kihoto Estate in Naivasha.  Naivasha Sub-County Police Commander Samuel Waweru said no identification documents were found on the deceased.  “We are treating his death as murder. We suspect he was killed elsewhere and the body dumped in Naivasha,” Waweru told The Standard.  Gathura, who wrote for The Standard and Nation in the past, ran a Health and Science blog called Rocket Science (rocketsciences.co.ke).  He owned the website, whose content touched on reproductive health, Covid-19, mental health, common diseases, health research, among others.  His last article on the website titled Sterilised men protect their women against ovarian cancer – study, was published on October 19.  Prior to that, he had written two articles on October 16. One was titled Kenyans drop guard as Covid-19 fatigue sets in, and the other titled 20,000 sex workers in Nairobi have mental health issues – study.  Gathura had operated the website for five years and eleven months.   Serikali ya kaunti ya Nakuru yatoa pendekezo la kuzuia uvuvi katika ziwa Naivasha  Uvuvi Haramu Naivasha: Wavuvi haramu wanatumia vifaa vibovu, baadhi ni neti zilizopigwa marufuku  Mwanamme ajaribu kujitoa uhai Naivasha, alikata koo kwa kigae cha chupa By Daniel Chege | 1 day ago By James Munyeki | 1 day ago By Caroline Chebet | 1 day ago By Julius Chepkwony | 1 day ago Court saves leafy Karen suburb from unwelcome structures