Deputy President William Ruto addresses a gathering at Chebirbei centre in Kericho county on November 23, 2021. [DPPS, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto yesterday accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of betraying him by making peace with ODM leader Raila Odinga.  While addressing residents in Kedowa in Kipkelion East and Belgut constituency, Ruto also said the president had betrayed eight million Kenyans who had voted for Jubilee in the last elections.  “Isn’t it an insult and contempt of the highest order for the president to act as if Jubilee doesn’t have anyone else to lead it that he had to bring the opposition to lead the government?” he posed.   Even then, Ruto was bullish that he would beat Raila and other presidential candidates and succeed President Kenyatta next year.  Uhuru, Ramaphosa sign eight trade deals  Kingpin in distress  Jubilee Ruto ouster plans unclear as NDC postponed  Ruto defends Mau evictions, tells off rivals using exercise to discredit him   “My development track record for the last years as deputy president is unparalleled. What has the former Prime Minister and other presidential candidates including Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka done? Leadership is not a fashion show,” he said.  “If you haven’t done anything meaningful for Kenyans despite holding senior government positions, they will not entrust you with leadership. The 2022 election will be a competition based on track record. UDA’s platform is a bottom-Up economic model. Let my opponents state theirs.”  The DP pledged that if he clinches power next year, he will implement the Big Four Agenda which he said collapsed after the Handshake between President Kenyatta and Raila.  “Once the president goes on retirement. My administration will pick up from where he left. We will set aside Sh100 billion as we had originally planned, for housing, manufacturing, agro-processing and value addition,” he said.  Ruto also welcomed Kipkelion East MP Joseph Limo’s calls for the UDA government to construct the 50 dams among them Kimwarer, Arror, Itare, Bosto which have stalled under Jubilee administration.  Meanwhile ODM leader Raila Odinga has dismissed claims of engaging in early campaigns as baseless and unfounded.  Raila defended his Azimio la Umoja rallies terming them non-political and only meant to unite Kenyans.  “Azimio la Umoja is basically a consultation with Kenyans. I don’t know how that can be interpreted as campaigning,” Raila said yesterday when he met defectors, including Marsabit Woman representative Saphia Sheikh Adan, at Chungwa House, in Nairobi.  He noted that unlike his competitors, ODM had not picked a presidential candidate yet, and that him campaigning was not factual.  “We have been consulting people around the country. We have been asking people what they want. That cannot be remotely interpreted as early campaigns,” he added.  Raila also took a swipe at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) blaming it for not taming those currently engaging in early campaigns. “Tell Chebukati to warn the people. Don’t just make wild allegations,” said Raila.  The sentiments came a day after Deputy President William Ruto also distanced himself from early campaigns.  Ruto had said he was conducting his normal duties as Deputy President.    Has Kenya gotten devolution, right? Is it time for an adjustment or Should the country soldier on?  Reigning champion Carl Tundo registers 4th win of the season after victory in Thika Rally  Wazalendo Hockey team ready for the Africa cup of club champions in Ghana By Gilbert Kimutai | 7 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich and Muriithi Mugo | 7 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich and Daniel Kariuki | 7 hours ago By Irissheel Shanzu | 1 day ago