Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui issues 593 title deeds to residents of Shalom Village in Rongai, Nakuru County on November 17, 2021. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard].  Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui says he is not keen on being ODM leader Raila Odinga’s running mate. Mr Kinyanjui says he will be defending his seat in the 2022 General Election.    The governor has featured prominently in Raila’s rallies, raising speculation that he is angling to partner with the former premier.  He was also among the first governors to declare support for Raila’s quest to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta.  Kinyanjui hosted Raila in Nakuru during the launch of his Azimio la Umoja mantra. The governor has lately been accompanying Raila on his tours and has featured prominently during the ODM leader’s visits to Mt Kenya and Coast.  Police impound 20,000 litres of untaxed ethanol  Nakuru households set to benefit from Sh500 million emergency water program   Row erupts over allocation of PSV spaces at new bus terminus  Matatu operators in row over new Nakuru bus terminus   The governor, who spoke in Rongai on Wednesday when he issued 593 title deeds to IDPs, said: “Let it be clear that I will be vying for governor of Nakuru in the coming elections. And I will do all that is necessary to reach out to residents of Nakuru.”  He added: “I have been under pressure from different quarters to go for a bigger seat. Some have been telling me so with good intentions and others out of ill will. However, I wish to state that I’ll defend my seat,” said Kinyanjui.  “Leaving Nakuru without completing my development plan for the county would be like abandoning my child on the streets. My focus is on Nakuru,” the governor added.   Kinyanjui joined politics in 2006 when he unsuccessfully vied for the Nakuru Town parliamentary seat in a by-election following the death of former assistant minister Mirugi Kariuki.  He won the seat in the 2007 General Election. He would lose his 2013 attempt for Nakuru governorship at the nominations. He was then appointed to head the National Transport and Safety Authority.  Kinyanjui became governor in 2017 after dislodging Kinuthia Mbugua, now the State House comptroller.  “I have been accompanying Raila in his tours to ensure Nakuru is on the table when sharing of positions in the national government will be done after elections.”   Serikali ya kaunti ya Nakuru yatoa pendekezo la kuzuia uvuvi katika ziwa Naivasha  KENHA urges Kenyans plying the Nairobi-Nakuru highway to use alternative routes  Tussle over the ownership of land in Ngongogeri, Nakuru threatening peace amongst disputing parties By Gilbert Kimutai | 3 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 3 hours ago By Irissheel Shanzu | 9 hours ago By Titus Too | 10 hours ago Prison break: Kamiti terror convict Joseph Juma Odhiambo unknown in Mumias