A team of detectives is in Nanyuki to unravel the mysterious disappearance of two vehicles belonging to the British Army Training Unit (Batuk).  The discovery of the missing vehicles was made on Thursday last week during an impromptu audit of the vehicles within the well-protected facility.  The matter was reported at the Nanyuki Police Station. The detectives are investigating when the vehicles could have gone missing.  On Saturday morning, plainclothes officers were all over the garages in Nanyuki town, targeting those specialized in panel beating in the search of the missing military vehicles.  An official aware of the investigations said they are yet to get details when each of the vehicles went missing.  Governor Ndiritu Muriithi rejects UK soldiers' invite over murder  Governor Ndiritu Muriithi says no to Batuk remembrance service parade  Newbies Police dare K’Ogalo as Wazito winless streak continues  Miheso relishing prospect of facing former club Gor Mahia "We are working hard to get the information behind the syndicate behind the disappearance of the vehicles," said one of the policemen.  Batuk Spokesperson Daniel Johnson said Kenya Police are investigating the matter.  “The theft of two vehicles from the Batuk is under investigation," said the spokesperson but declined to divulge more information.  A senior security official in Laikipia County said the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) detectives were on the ground gathering information.  “We are working with the Batuk team to help unravel the mystery,” said the security official who sought anonymity.  On Saturday morning, the detectives arrested scores of mechanics found wearing overalls suspected to originate from the Batuk camp.  Other mechanics were warned of the impending arrest if caught wearing the overall suspected to belong to the Batuk.  Glance facts  -Kenya and the British Government are working to resolve the mystery behind the death of Agnes Wanjiru in 2012.  -Tens of British army vehicles ply along the highways in Laikipia and Isiolo counties driven by the white soldiers or the employees.  -The soldiers' troop for training in parts of Isiolo and Laikipia county during their stay in Kenya.    bgikandi@standardmedia.co.ke     NSL Action: Kenya Police 2-2 Modern Coast Rangers  Polisi walaumiwa Kapenguria  Mwanaume amuua mwanaume mwengine na kujisalimisha kwa polisi By Antony Gitonga | 1 hour ago By Irissheel Shanzu | 3 hours ago By Robert Kiplagat  | 4 hours ago By James Munyeki | 4 hours ago Father of four joins KDF after 15 years of failed attempts