Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria addressing parents of the 2,000 students whose education is facilitated by Nyota Zetu Education programmes on May 10, 2021 [Boniface Gikandi, Standard]  Murang'a Governor Mwangi wa Iria has said he is ready to face the other presidential candidates in next year's General Election.  The second-term governor said he has the backing of the Mt Kenya region thanks to his development track record.  Wa Iria, who will vie on Usawa kwa Wote Party ticket, said following his determination to vie for presidency, Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga have established networks in his backyard to look for support.   Majority of governors, he said, are in support of his candidature for defending devolution during his tenure as the vice chair at the Council of Governors.  Man, his wife and their two adult daughters killed in road accident  Don't give Mungiki space  Man to be arraigned for vandalising Safaricom’s Sh2 million property  Mwangi wa Iria blasts Mt Kenya forum for making 'illegal' bargains “I am in the race for the presidency after majority of leaders in Mt Kenya region betrayed the voters as they have moved to support candidates from other regions," he said.    "Since the advent of multi-party Mt Kenya region had been supporting political ideologies of retired President Mwai Kibaki, the late Kenneth Matiba who had been vying for presidency, with support of Mt Kenya voters,” said Wa Iria on Wednesday.  He added that he has a programme that will transform rural areas through an intensive agricultural value chain.  Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata, however, said Ruto has the capacity to transform the country following the experience he gained as deputy president.  “Don’t be cheated, Ruto is leading among the presidential contenders, based on the support he has marshalled in Mt Kenya region,” he said.  Linford Mutembei, who backs ODM leader Raila Odinga, said Wa Iria has potential for the top seat but he should not underrate the Raila wave.  “Raila has managed to convince Kenyans that he is fit for the slot and Mt Kenya region leadership has embraced him. The likes of Wa Iria should back him,” said Mutembei.  Alex Karani, a political scientist from Mathira, says Wa Iria has caused panic among the leaders after standing firm and defying calls to support the perceived preferred presidential candidates.  Mary Wakini from Kinangop, Nyandarua County, said she has visited Murang'a several times to learn more about Nyota Zetu Scholarship that supports 2,000 needy students.    N.A Speaker Justin Muturi made Mt. Kenya Spokesman at the Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine in Murang’a  Spika Muturi atawazwa huko Murang'a, Naibu Rais Willam Ruto afunga safari hadi Pwani | MBIU WIKENDI  Maandamano Nanderema, Murang'a wakwamia BBI, Maisha ya Uzeeni Tanzania | MBIU YA KTN (Sehemu ya 2) By Mireri Junior | 4 hours ago By DPPS | 8 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 9 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 10 hours ago