Deputy President William Ruto in Kondele, Kisumu, on November 10, 2021. [Harold Odhiambo, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto reportedly received intelligence to avoid parts of Kisumu over tension.  Police spokesperson Bruno Shioso has said the tension was due to dispute over the distribution of campaign funds.    A crowd has disrupted Deputy President William Ruto’s Wednesday tour of Kondele Ward in Kisumu Central Sub-County. Ruto is in Kisumu to sell his presidential agenda.   Political parties shouldn’t be tribe-based – DP William Ruto  Youth stone DP William Ruto's motorcade in Kisumu   Inside Nyanza’s fight against sickle cell  Ruto allies warn OKA principals against being coerced to back Raila As he passed through Kondele, some youth pelted his convoy with stones. Police officers in at least four Toyota Land Cruiser vehicles were deployed to the scene to restore normalcy.  When Ruto was addressing the crowd from his vehicle’s sunroof, a section of rowdy youth then started heckling him. The DP was forced to cut short his speech which had lasted barely five minutes.  Shioso said Ruto's team was warned and asked to skip Kondele during the Nyanza tour.  "During the rally, violence erupted amongst the local agitated groups who engaged in stone-throwing and other unruly behaviour," he added.  Police responded promptly to contain the situation and provide security to Ruto, his entourage, the public, and property, in the process, tear gas was discharged.  DP Ruto left the scene and no injuries were reported, but some vehicles were destroyed.  Ruto had earlier made successful addresses on Obote Road and Jua Kali in Kisumu Central.  In his speech, the DP urged the residents to vote for him in the 2022 presidential election, saying he was the best bet to economically elevate the low and middle-income earners in the country.   Nyanza clergy speak on Covid-19 guidelines imposed on the 13 counties  Government to take stringent measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the Lake region  Raila and Kalonzo's unity plot ahead of 2022 general elections | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI By Winfrey Owino | 4 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 12 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 17 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 17 hours ago