Kanu Chairman and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi addresses Dini ya Roho Mafuta Pole ya Africa church members during a fundraiser at Sook in Kapenguria, West Pokot on Wednesday, November 3, 2021.  [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Baringo Senator Gideon Moi says the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) is not a lightweight coalition.  The Kanu chairman warned those chest-thumping that they will be in for a shock come next year’s elections.  He maintained that Kanu’s alliance with Kalonzo Musyoka’s Wiper Party, ANC of Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya) and Cyrus Jirongo (United Democratic Party) was a formidable force.  Gideon Moi hails former AFC boss who changed lives  One Kenya Alliance takes campaigns to Mt Kenya  Former bigwigs run to OKA, Ruto and Raila camps  Gideon: We'll offer free education, reduce taxes The senator said the coalition was also working with President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga.    “Kanu made a decision we will have a presidential candidate. We have friends; we are in with Kalonzo, Wetang’ula, Musalia and Jirongo. Uhuru and Raila are also with us. We are not lightweight,” he said, likening the leaders to top-level premier league football players.  Gideon was speaking yesterday in West Pokot County when he led a fundraising for the construction of the Dini ya Roho Mafuta Pole ya Africa church offices.  The senator said OKA will ensure free secondary school education, deal with corruption and ensure a 24-hour economy.  The senator also called on the church to pray for the country as the elections near. He cautioned that some politicians will do anything to clinch seats.  “You have lost track. Don’t make politics a do-or-die thing, fight for eternal life. The world has an end,” he said.  West Pokot, he said, has never been in the Opposition and should not do anything that will lead them to the cold. He said pastoral communities should ensure they are in government.  The senator hailed the Dini ya Roho Mafuta Pole ya Africa church members for being selfless, and challenged leaders to emulate them.  He noted that some of them had been jailed for their firm stand in defence of the church, but never gave up.  Kanu Secretary-General Nick Salat, Baringo Woman Representative Gladwell Cheruiyot, West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo, Kapenguria MP Samwel Moroto, Sigor MP Peter Lochakopong and West Pokot County Assembly Speaker Catherine Mukinyang also attended the function.  Mr Salat and Ms Cheruiyot said the alliance was ready and willing to accommodate all leaders from West Pokot.  Salat pleaded with the locals to vote for peaceful leaders and shun those spreading hatred.   Cheruiyot urged church members not to be divided by politicians.   Ms Mukinyang said the area is a Kanu zone, and urged locals to continue supporting the Independence party in the next General Election.   Seneta Gideon Moi aelezea matumaini yake kuwa mahakama itatoa uamuzi bora kuhusu mchakato wa BBI  Raila Odinga has given the clearest indication yet that he is ready to work with One Kenya Alliance  Seneta Gideon Moi awaonya wanakandarasi baada ya mradi wa ujenzi kukuwama | MBIU WIKENDI Sehemu ya 2 By Mireri Junior | 2 hours ago By Brian Otieno and Jacob Ng'etich | 5 hours ago By Fidelis Kabunyi | 6 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 13 hours ago