Chief Justice Martha Koome. November 23, 2021. [Samson Wire, Standard]  A five-judge bench will now hear the case challenging roll-out of the Competency-Based Curriculum (CBC).  This is after High Court judge Anthony Mrima found the case filed by lawyer Esther Ang’awa raised weighty issues, which require more than one judge to settle. The judge called on Chief Justice Martha Koome to appoint the bench.  “I certify CBC petition as raising substantial and novel issues requiring consideration by an uneven number of judges, of not less than five, to be assigned by the Chief Justice,” he said.    I won't leave polls team, CJ tells Ruto allies  Koome to UDA: I’m not leaving election preparedness committee!  CBC petition to be heard by judge bench- court directs  Why Ruto wants Chief Justice Koome out of 2022 polls team Ang’awa has sued Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha, the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD), the Teachers Service Commission (TSC), the Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut), the National Assembly and Interior CS Fred Matiang’i.  At the heart of the case is whether CBC was rolled out without prior preparations and consultations.  At the same time, Ms. Ang’awa argues that teachers are ill-prepared, and that implementation of the new curriculum will harm children's future.  However, in their separate replies, the five accused, with the support of the National Parents Association (NPA) want the court to dismiss the case.  Through its lawyer Elizabeth Akinyi, NPA said Ang’awa has not undertaken to compensate those who will be affected by the orders.    CJ Martha Koome's 100 days in Office: The CJ wants to leave a legacy and have all courts digitized  New Sports Curriculum: Gov't launches physical education and sports policy in accordance with CBC  Serikali yazindua sera mpya ya elimu ya mazoezi kwa mujibu wa kanuni za utekelezaji wa mtaala wa CBC By Elvince Joshua | 11 minutes ago By Brian Okoth | 2 hours ago By PSCU | 3 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 11 hours ago