Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi explains his absentia from the OKA rally. [Courtesy]  The Amani National Congress (ANC) party has clarified to the public why its leader, Musalia Mudavadi, was not present at the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) rally in Kajiado County on Sunday, November 14.  Musalia was absent in the rally but attended a church service at Friends International Centre (Quakers) Church on Ngong Road.  Hours after the rally, the ANC party took to its official Twitter handle to share a 23-second video of Musalia revealing why he missed the rally and clarifying that he was still a bonafide member of the alliance.  “I am human, I went through medical stress and I could not be in a public rally this weekend but from next week, I will be back on course,” he said.  Jack Miller, the Special Branch spy who feared his wife  Old is gold: Health insurers warm up to senior citizens  Kaptel Moran Dancers: At it for 65 years and still shaking legs  Mother and son in Sh200m case asked to take DNA tests Then added, “I knew they had church then go for the rally. I know they will convey my apologies,”  The party, through its Twitter handle, captioned the video, "why I did not attend the OKA rally at Kiserian.".  On Sunday OKA principals, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and FORD-Kenya leader Moses Wetangula took a tour of Kiserian and Kitengela in Kajiado County.  During the rally, the trio promised the electorate free secondary education, reduction of taxes by half and support to single mothers.  “There is plenty we will do for you, one of our priorities will be to deal with corruption and those who steal public money,” Gideon Moi said.  Meanwhile, after the church service at the Ngong Road-based church, Musalia criticised bot Ruto and Odinga’s freebies inquiring about its source.  Odinga had promised sh6000 to families with no income while Ruto, on the other hand, has been dishing out money to unemployed youth in what he terms as ‘youth empowerment.   Musalia Mudavadi is expected in Meru county in his heightened political activities to woo the region  Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao  Muungano wa NASA umevunjika rasmi baada ya ANC, Wiper na Ford Kenya kutangaza kujiondoa kwao By Harold Odhiambo | 2 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 9 hours ago By Nehemiah Okwembah | 19 hours ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 21 hours ago