Crime scene [Courtesy]  The family of a 24-year-old man who died while in police custody in Kisii County is demanding justice.  David Nyamweya is said to have been arrested Tuesday on suspicion that he stole a motorbike he had been given to ride.  His arrest came barely a week after he returned to Kisii from Nairobi, where he was a casual labourer.  Maria Moraa, the widow, said she did not believe the police report that her husband had committed suicide using a belt.  Frequent prison breaks worrying, should be stopped  Relief for 1,500 county staff in labour dispute  Kisii County Government maps tourist attraction sites  Leadership battle starts after removal of Kisii County Assembly Speaker “We are demanding justice. My husband only failed to submit money to the owner of the motorbike last Monday, after coming home that evening, since the motorbike had been stolen. He informed me that the motorbike was stolen while he was having a meal at a restaurant in town,” said Moraa.  Moraa questioned why her husband was held in police cells for a week if there was evidence he had stolen the motorbike.  Stella Nyaboke, another sister, said her brother was the breadwinner.    “We are calling on the Independent Policing Oversight Authority and the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights to take up this matter since we do not understand how our brother could commit suicide in a police cell using a belt,” said Nyaboke.  Kisii County Police Commander Francis Kooli said the suspect’s body was found hanging in the police cells by officers, who were on routine check on Sunday afternoon, adding that Nyamweya was being held on suspicion of stealing a Honda motorcycle worth Sh124,400.  “The suspect, who was alone in the police cells at the time, was found hanging with a belt on his neck. His body was taken to the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital mortuary awaiting post-mortem,” said Kooli.      Two MPs duke it out at funeral causing vicious exchange in the ceremony in Kisii | Week in Review  REGGAE IS BACK: The final BBI report unveiled in Kisii and received by President Uhuru and Raila  Celebrating Mashujaa: The National Celebrations held in Kisii County By Harold Odhiambo | 16 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 1 day ago By Erick Abuga | 1 day ago By James Omoro | 1 day ago Father of four joins KDF after 15 years of failed attempts