British Army Major Jules Ward shows children their photos before the start of the Kenya Railways Kiganjo - Sagana train test run, July 3, 2020. [Mose Sammy, Standard]  The recent revelations about the killing of Agnes Wanjiru, a 21-year-old mother of one, allegedly by a UK military soldier has elicited anger and a string of unanswered questions among Kenyans.  The UK has deployed several short-term military training teams to help build the capacity of military forces, improve response to security threats and emerging Humanitarian crises.  The British Army Training Unit in Kenya (BATUK) is a permanent training support unit based mainly at Nyati Barracks in Nanyuki, Laikipia County, about 200km north of Nairobi.  It provides training to exercising units in preparation for deployment or high readiness tasks.  Lamu Senator in trouble for skipping court session  Agnes Wanjiru murder part two: How British soldiers made fun of killing  British soldier victim’s family wants justice  Havi wants British Army murder suspected surrendered to Kenya The UK Ministry of Defence (MoD) has a Defence Cooperation Agreement with the Kenyan Government whereby up to six British infantry battalions (10,000 service personnel) per year may carry out four-week exercises on Kenya Ministry of Defence land at Archer's Post and in Laikipia County.  This is because the hot conditions and rugged terrain, which present an opportunity to improve their skills and tenacity, are unavailable in the UK.  As part of its social responsibility, the British Army helps in civil engineering projects, primary health care assistance to the locals.  Britain also offers training opportunities in the UK to the Kenyan military and conducts joint exercises with the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF).  Being one of the most developed countries in the world, Britain also aid in Kenya's struggle against Al Shabaab.  BATUK consists of around 100 permanent staff and a cohort of another 280 temporary personnel. BATUK employs over 500 full time Kenyans and delivers over 60 projects to support the local community every year.  British troops help to train over 1,100 Kenyan soldiers every year before they deploy to the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM).  Wanjiru’s body was found in a septic tank in March 2012, with evidence indicating sexual activity before choking to death.  Reports indicate that by the time her body was discovered at the Lions Court Hotel, the UK soldiers who had partied at the hotel on the night of her death had gone back to Europe.  Can a British soldier be charged and tried in Kenya?  In September 2015, President Uhuru Kenyatta and British Prime Minister David Cameron made an agreement that clarified that British soldiers who violate the law would be tried in Kenya.  Their agreement also involved regular inspection of the British military bases by Kenyan authorities.  Although the agreement allowed British soldiers to be tried in Kenya the trial was not necessarily to Kenyan law.  In exchange, increased training opportunities were to be offered to Kenyan troops.  Before the agreement six years ago, there had been a dispute involving Kenyan jurisdiction and the British personnel on whether or not they should be tried in Kenya for any violations of Kenyan law.  This was after some instances where locals were hurt by the British soldiers came up.  In its defence, the British government has contended that civilian injuries only occur when civilians illegally encroach onto the marked training areas.   Treni ya mafuta iliyokuwa ikisafiri kutoka Nanyuki kuelekea Nairobi yashika moto huko Sagana  Developing: Two KWS staffers die after plane crashed soon after take-off in Nanyuki  Twende Nanyuki Project | KTN News Special By Hellen Miseda | 6 hours ago By Saada Hassan | 1 day ago By Winfrey Owino | 6 days ago By Amos Mabinda | 20 days ago