Deputy President William Ruto has urged Meru politicians to stop imposing ODM leader Raila Odinga on the electorate.   Dr Ruto, while in Meru for a two-day visit, yesterday directed the sentiments to Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi.  At the same time, the DP said he had faith that the Meru community would make the right choice, saying the community played a big role in the fall of the Building Bridges Initiative fronted by Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta.   Speaking at Githongo in Central Imenti, Ruto said he was confident that the residents would elect him as the next Head of State. He said the people would decide, pointing at the roads, electricity and education projects he and Uhuru had delivered, as they had pledged.     “People like Kiraitu should stop playing with us,” he said.   Raila to Musalia: Don’t oppose my Sh6,000-for-the-poor plan  Kiraitu and Munya asked to decamp as DP Ruto ends tour  Give us a break! Mt Kenya governors tell Ruto  Extreme ways Kenyans express themselves in politics He said the 8 million Kenyans who had faith in Jubilee Party because they had confidence in them to form a government to work for them should not be taken for fools, because they did not need someone else.   Addressing the crowd in sheng, and castigating those trying to front a Raila presidency, Ruto said: “Wanatubeba ufala!”  The DP said when Uhuru was looking for a running mate, others like Raila, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Amani National Congress’ Musalia Mudavadi and others were not with them.   “When Uhuru wanted to lead the country Raila, Kalonzo and others were not with him. They are bringing (political) conmanship,“ he said.   Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua said Ruto had been widely accepted in Mt Kenya, and told the region’s governors not to impose Raila on the people. “In Central, we are for Ruto. We have asked the governor in Nyeri not to force Raila on us. Tell Kiraitu not to do so. We have faith in Meru not to vote for Raila,” Mr Gachagua said.   Senators Mithika Linturi (Meru), Irungu Kang’ata (Murang’a) and MPs Kathuri Murungi (South Imenti, Independent) and Moses Kirima (Central Imenti, Jubilee) threw their weight behind Ruto and the United Democratic Alliance.      What is ailing football in Kenya? Stakeholders discuss challenges, solutions, and the game's future  Drought situation in Wajir reaches alarming levels with thousands of animals succumbing to hunger  DP Ruto pledges to finalize the BIG 4 Agenda which he says stalled after Raila's pact with Uhuru By Timothy Kariuki | 3 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 5 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 5 hours ago By Phares Mutembei | 11 hours ago