Bishop Peter Machiuka and Pastor Julius Mukalia from the Harvest Christian Church in Meru County in Embu town on their third day of 300kms journey to meet DP William Ruto to deliver a special message from God. [Muriithi Mugo, Standard]  A bishop is set to cover 300 kilometres on foot to deliver a divine message to Deputy President William Ruto.  Traversing the terrain from Meru to Nairobi, Bishop Peter Machiuka, 63, of the Harvest Christian Church in Igembe North, is counting his footsteps as he continues with prayers on his journey to the DP’s office in the city.  Guarding the prophecy as a top-secret to be only delivered to the DP in person, he had passed Embu town by Saturday, a day that marked the third day since he started the journey from his Kamweline village in Kabachi ward, Igembe North.  The bishop claims God spoke to him and instructed him to walk as he prays for peaceful elections next year.  Moses Kuria: Why I have reduced engagement with Ruto  Ruto welcomes opponents willing to help create next government  Ruto allies warn OKA principals against being coerced to back Raila  Ruto got it wrong, Kenya is notorious for killing political parties Bishop Machiuka said he will camp at Ruto’s residence or office until he can deliver the special message.  "God has sent me to have a prayer walk from Kamweline village in Kabachi, Igembe North in Meru County. I will walk to Nairobi while praying as instructed by God and to be able to safely deliver a prophecy to the DP Ruto,” said Bishop Machiuka, who is in charge of the Eastern region.  He further said he was also praying for Kenyans to remain peaceful and united irrespective of their opinion, tribal and political affiliations, to have political tolerance throughout the 2022 political campaign.  He said he was also tasked to pray for President Uhuru Kenyatta to have wisdom while leading the nation through the challenging Covid-19 pandemic and the transitional general elections.  When we caught up with him at Embu, the journey was tough, but he has to fulfil God's prophesy to avoid any wrath.  "At my age, I can hardly cover 40kilomeres daily because I easily get tired," he said.  The bishop said God wanted Kenyans to appreciate that a leader comes from him and that they should respect whoever is victorious in the 2022 elections.  While quoting the Bible, he noted that God chose David as King while he was still a small boy and had rejected his brothers, who had no option by accepting God's will.  He also appealed to all elected leaders to accept whoever wins in the elections.  Pastor Julius Mukalia, who is accompanying the bishop on this journey, said he decided to give him moral support in the excruciating trek while praying for the country.  "We can only be delivered from our inequities and daily challenges if we trust and pray for forgiveness from the maker," he said.  He noted the residents were facing various challenges, which include the Covid-19, lack of food, family breakdowns and increasing cases of suicide due to depression.  The journey starts from Kamweline - Mutuati- Laare- Kangeta - Meru town - Chuka - Embu- Mwea - Kenol - Thika - Nairobi.   CROSSFIRE Magara & Pamela Odhiambo faceoff on Coalitions, economic models, UhuRuto, & Raila politics  40th Sharjah International Book fair currently underway in UAE  14 people killed following a 2 day cattle raid in Samburu county By Muriithi Mugo | 2 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 3 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 4 days ago By Phares Mutembei | 8 days ago