Individuals and organisations advocating for gender equality are set to be awarded at a gala event in Nairobi tomorrow.  The inaugural Women on Board Network (WOBN) will be held at the Movenpick Hotel. Eight categories that will be conferred have been identified.  They include Woman on Board Award, Woman Chairperson of the Year Award, Male Champion of Women Agenda Award and Woman Trailblazer of the year Award.  Other categories are Rising Star Award, Women in STEM Award, Organisation of the Year Award and Organisation/Individual Empowering Grassroots Award.    Gender equality the secret to fast climate action  A reluctant feminist: Germany's Merkel still inspires many women  Build an inclusive world for a better tomorrow  A reluctant feminist: Germany's Merkel still inspires many women “This event brings together individuals and institutions from all over the country to be honoured for their exemplary services and impact on leadership in various capacities in the country,” says WOBN.  The organisation provides a platform that brings together women and female champions from diverse fields and ranks.  The Woman on Board Award is in honour of a female contender who has rendered impactful service, while the Male Champion of Women Agenda Award will be given to men who have advocated, motivated and supported women to take up senior leadership positions.  Woman Trailblazer of the Year Award will go to women who have enhanced visibility and importance of other women.  The Rising Star Award recognises young women who serve as an inspiration and have demonstrated potential to positively impact the next generation.  Woman in STEM award has been reserved to a woman who has demonstrated excellence and enhanced the visibility, importance of women in the fields of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics.  Organisation of the Year Award goes to an establishment that has achieved gender parity in its leadership.   Why Kenyans are paying own bills despite calls for government to intervene  Curbing Suicide: Male Suicide cases on the rise | Weekend Express | part 1  Viongozi Wakike wamsuta Naibu Rais William Ruto By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 10 hours ago By PSCU | 10 hours ago By Kamore Maina | 10 hours ago Why Ruto wants Chief Justice Koome out of 2022 polls team