Central Region Economic Bloc Chairman Franci Kimemia. [File, Standard]  Mount Kenya governors have condemned what they described as ‘unsavoury language’ used by Deputy President William Ruto's supporters in their bid to sell their candidate.  The bloc, through its chair, has also called on relevant government agencies to look into the matter.  The Deputy President is on a tour of the region drumming up support for his Bottom-Up economic model, and hustler narrative ahead of next year’s polls.  In a statement on behalf of governors in the region, CEREB Chair Francis Kimemia has asked institutions responsible for national cohesion, law and order to take legal action against politicians spewing hate.  Harold, Sue in all-out appeal to voters in rival churches  Extreme ways Kenyans express themselves in politics  Ruto: Kiraitu stop forcing orange party boss on voters  Come 2022, elect a president who will revive the economy, says Mwangi Kiunjuri “We urge all those seeking elective political positions to uphold tolerance, civility, integrity and the Rule of Law and we urge all Institutions responsible for national cohesion, rule of law and security to scale up surveillance and take appropriate and immediate legal action without fear or favour,” Kimemia’s statement read in part.  If the utterances persist, Kimemia says, is likely to provoke acts of violence and undermine the people’s right to make political choices.   “The latest unwarranted attacks targeted Governors Kiraitu Murungi of Meru County and James Nyoro of Kiambu County, and came soon after similar attacks on Governor Francis Kimemia of Nyandarua County at Magumu,” Kimemia added.  In his Meru tour, he urged local politicians to stop imposing ODM leader Raila Odinga on the electorate and directed the sentiments to Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi.  “People like Kiraitu should stop playing with us,” he said.   Drought situation in Wajir reaches alarming levels with thousands of animals succumbing to hunger  DP Ruto pledges to finalize the BIG 4 Agenda which he says stalled after Raila's pact with Uhuru  DP Ruto pledges to finalize the BIG 4 Agenda which he says stalled after Raila's pact with President By Kennedy Gachuhi | 10 hours ago By Phares Mutembei | 12 hours ago By Phares Mutembei | 12 hours ago By Nehemiah Okwembah | 12 hours ago