In 1960, Colonial Governor Sir Patrick Renison opened one of the oldest social halls in Kisumu.  The African Social Hall’s first European director, Mr Munderfield, had passion for the growth of arts, sports and public intellectual discourse.  Sixty-one years on, the centre has witnessed many transformations, the latest being about a year ago.   One year since it was refurbished, relaunched and renamed, the facility has become the home of artists and tourists.  Beyond the renewed tempo in creative activities, it is the historical and the cultural value the hub, now known as Mama Grace Onyango Arts, Culture, Research and Educational Centre, is reputed for that makes it stand out.  Kisumu surpasses its daily water requirement by 20 million litres  Police arrest two suspects who escaped from custody  Gloves off as titans scramble for Governor Anyang' Nyong'o's seat  Civility must be the new currency of our fire starters and stone throwers Paintings of historical political heroes and other pioneer leaders in the social and cultural fields hang on the walls. Many iconic theatre artistes, writers and musicians have grown their art here.     “It was a centre for character training for the youth, recreational centre for Kisumu residents, a place for instilling healthy lifestyles among the inhabitants of Kisumu and a centre for the promotion of cultural activities,” says Obat Masira, its CEO and Manager.  Its main objective is to promote communication among residents of the Great Lakes region through learning, research and cultural activities.      NEW RED-ZONE? Spike in counties with low numbers with Kisumu registering new infections of Covid-19  Azma ya Vihiga Queens: Wanatarajia kuicharaza Kisumu Starlets, mechi itachezwa kesho ugani Moi  Crowds Nightmare: Kisumu residents disregard Covid-19 protocols during Madaraka day celebrations By Isaiah Gwengi | 9 hours ago By Kevine Omollo  | 1 day ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 3 days ago By Harold Odhiambo | 3 days ago Escaped convicts sat under trees and told us they were charcoal men