Deputy President William Ruto and West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi acknowledge greetings from Nyamira residents on November 2, 2021.(Sammy Omingo, Standard)  Deputy President William Ruto concluded his two days’ tour of Nyamira County yesterday, and dismissed the development records of his three main competitors in the presidential bid.  He said ODM leader Raila Odinga, former Vice Presidents Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi had little to show for their many years in public service.  Speaking during several stopovers in North Mugirango and West Mugirango Constituencies, Ruto said Raila, Kalonzo and Mudavadi joined politics much earlier than him.  "... my main competitors have served as Prime Minister, Vice President and Deputy Prime Minister, and prior to that as Cabinet ministers and Members of Parliament. Can any one of you recall anything tangible they have done for Kenyans," posed Ruto.  Is Peter Kenneth Raila’s running mate?  Ruto, Raila and the Handshake  Uhuru moves to kick out Ruto from Jubilee  DP allies fault Matiang’i support for Raila   The DP said if elected, he would incorporate the Big Four agenda started by President Uhuru Kenyatta, and his Bottom-up economic model to ensure the country is on the right track to claim its spot globally.  He said the country was on the right track in the implementation of the Big Four agenda disrupted by Raila and Uhuru's March 2018 handshake.  Since then, he said, the key priority had been to change the Constitution through Building Bridges Initiative to accommodate leaders in powerful positions, forgetting that Kenyans have pressing needs.  "We started off well during our first term in office in 2013. However, things changed during our second term... Along the way we got visitors who forced us to change our initial plans. However, we are thankful to God the Reggae was stopped," said Ruto.  He said his competitors were waiting to be endorsed in boardroom deals, while he was busy moving around the country, engaging with Kenyans and seeking their support, adding that he was sure they would not let him down.  Ruto told his competitors that they should first disband their tribal parties and form a national party and identify one candidate to face him in the next general election instead of wasting a lot of time moving around the country dismissing his agenda.  He asked his competitors to come up with a clear plan for Kenyans in the next five years to be compared to his Bottom-up business model, instead of wasting time concentrating on him.  North Mugirango MP Joash Nyamoko said residents of the Gusii region had resolved to rally behind Ruto since they had established that he was a development conscious leader out to engage voters directly instead of waiting to be endorsed.  “Ruto is, every day, moving to various parts of the country identifying the needs of the locals so that he can ensure that when he becomes President he implements their development needs. We are yet to see the other presidential candidates doing that,” said Mr Nyamoko.  Kitutu Masaba MP Shadrack Mose urged government to allow Ruto and his teams to move around the country uninterrupted, since Kenyans were interested to know what each of the presidential candidates had in store for them.  West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi urged Uhuru to allow Kenyans to choose their next President, just like his predecessor Mwai Kibaki did in 2013.  South Mugirango MP Silvanus Osoro said Kenyans were evaluating each of the presidential candidates and would make a wise decision next year, and that nobody should be deceived that the 2022 election could be stolen.  Ruto addressed the public at Itibo, Nyamusi, Magwagwa, Ikonge, Ekerenyo, Kebirigo and Nyamira Town before ending his tour at Mr Kemosi’s rural home, where he ate with those that had accompanied him.   FKF Premier League: Gor Mahia beats Sofapaka 1-0  OKA chiefs take campaigns to President Kenyatta's backyard in Mount Kenya  UDM party embarks on a drive that will enhance the party for various political seats By Jacob Ng'etich | 2 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 16 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 1 day ago By Stanley Ongwae and Edwin Nyarangi | 1 day ago