Vice-chairperson of the National Police service commission, Dr Alice Otwala addresses police officers during the official launch of the National Police Service medical assessment of sick officers living with disabilities acquired in the line of deputy on November 2, 2021 [Omondi Onyango, Standard]  Sick and injured police officers will be posted close to their homes and places where they can easily access hospitals.  National Police Service Commission (NPSC) vice chair Alice Otwala said injured officers will also benefit from a medical insurance cover.  Speaking at the Kenya School of Government yesterday during a meeting by the NPSC special medical assessment board, Dr Otwala said the commission had deployed 59 counsellors and social workers to support the officers.  “The sick and injured officers will be transferred to areas where they can access hospital and family support,” she said.  Curfew lifting: Confusion over bar operating hours  Civil society calls for autonomy in police budgeting to stop ministry’s interference  Court orders reinstatement of senior police officer  Looking tough yet broken: Tales of depression in police service  Otwala said 800 officers had come out for assessment in Rift Valley, Central, North Eastern, Nyanza, Nairobi and Coast regions. Officers from Eastern and Western regions will be assessed soon. The medical assessment started in June.  It is estimated that one per cent of the 105,000 police officers are sick or injured.  “As Kenyans sleep safely and their property protected, the officers are exposed to danger. These officers need to be compensated,” she said.   6 police officers to be charged with murder, shootings and assault following IPOA's investigations  Crime watch: 3 Police officers arrested over alleged abetting of Ugandan suspect who escaped remand  How Police brutality might have led to rise in COVID-19 cases in Mombasa  By Augustine Oduor | 2 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 11 hours ago By Beldeen Waliaula | 11 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 11 hours ago