Wiper Democratic Movement Leader Hon. Kalonzo Musyoka was today presented with his Huduma Namba card by Huduma secretariat officials Mr John Kinyua and Miss Constance Kamande at his Karen Offices. [Dennis Kavisu, Standard]  Wiper Democratic Movement - Kenya has announced its intent to change its name and party colours.  The Kalonzo Musyoka-led outfit issued a notice through a local daily on November 4, saying that it had dropped the Kenya tag and that it will now be publicly known as the Wiper Democratic Movement.  It also states that it will change one of its colours from the ubiquitous sky blue to a subtler royal blue. Wiper will, however, maintain its umbrella branding alongside its earth red and white colours.  "Pursuant to Section 20(2) of the Political Parties Act, 2011, Wiper Democratic Movement - Kenya intends to change its name from Wiper Democratic Movement - Kenya (WDM-K) to Wiper Democratic Movement and its party colours from bold sky blue, white and earth red to royal blue, white and earth red," read the statement in part.  The bullet that propelled Kalonzo Musyoka’s political dream  Kalonzo’s Wiper to change name ahead of 2022 polls  Many years in public service but nothing to show, Ruto tells rivals  OKA leaders kick off campaigns in Kakamega   Last year, Kalonzo had said that the then looming rebranding of the party was aimed at making it more acceptable to Kenyans.  "We have taken the initiative to rebrand Wiper including the name and even the colour,” said Kalonzo who is also a One Kenya Alliance luminaries.  "Many people have complained about why we are calling ourselves a body part of a vehicle," he added at the time.  This followed another announcement in 2018 where the party leader had said that it would relocate its offices from Lavington to a larger space along the Southern Bypass as part of a rebranding plan ahead of the 2022 presidential election.    Kalonzo asema lengo lake kubwa katika uchaguzi mkuu ujao ni kumshinda William Ruto | MBIU WIKENDI 2  Governor Charity Ngilu urges Kalonzo and Raila to mend fences and work together ahead of 2022 polls  Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka calls out political leaders who renege on political agreements By Eric Abuga | 2 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 3 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 8 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich and Josphat Thiongo | 8 hours ago