Residents of Likuyani sub-county have protested against the closure of four police posts and subsequent transfer of officers that were attached to them.  On October 27, Deputy Inspector General of Police Edward Mbugua directed that all police posts with less than six officers be closed arguing they lack the capacity to serve the public.  Ivungwi, Machine, Mwiba and Godown are the police posts that were closed down in Likuyani. They are among many other police posts and patrol bases ordered closed countrywide.  On Friday, Likuyani MP Enock Kibunguchy faulted Mbugua’s directive terming it ill-advised.  Stop killing your relatives over witchcraft claims, youth warned  14 people killed, two injured in Samburu cattle raids  Government sets up team to tackle online fraudsters  Secondary school teacher commits suicide “We used CDF funds to put up some of the police posts because we wanted to improve security in this area. It was wrong for Mr Mbugua to take such a decision unilaterally. He has closed the police posts at the expense of the safety of our people,” said Dr.  The lawmaker accused Mbugua of making the decision without even consulting local leaders.  "Now these facilities that have been put up using public funds will go to waste," lamented the MP.  Kibunguchy wants Mbugua to appear before the National Administration and Security Committee of the National Assembly to explain his actions.  Mr Mbugua had earlier indicated that some of the police posts and patrol bases had inadequate officers and were therefore unable to provide services as expected.  He directed that the affected facilities be manned by officers on patrol from main police stations.  jinyanji@standardmedia.co.ke         Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death  Insecurity in Murang'a: Government moves in to stem vices, conflicts reported during lockdown By Nathan Ochunge | 1 day ago By Benard Lusigi | 1 day ago By Nathan Ochunge | 2 days ago By Brian Kisanji | 3 days ago