FKF President Nick Mwendwa (left) with lawyers Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (C) and Lawyer John Khaminwa at Milimani court on Wednesday, November 17, 2021. [Standard]  Ousted Football Kenya Federation (FKF) boss Nick Mwendwa arrived this morning at the  Milimani courts where his freedom could be short-lived depending on what the magistrate will rule on the application by the Director of Criminal Investigation to detain him.  Prosecution counsel Everline Onunga had asked the court to detain Mwendwa for 14 days to allow them to conclude investigations into the suspected fraudulent acquisition of public property. According to the prosecution, Mwendwa is being investigated for allegedly transferring Sh8.5 million from FKF account to his personal accounts and authorising the fictitious withdrawal of Sh29.5 million from the federation’s account.  Mwendwa’s court appearance comes a day after the court released him on bail pending the determination of an application to detain him for two weeks.  FIFA asks Kenya to reinstate Nick Mwendwa's FKF Team  Where did it go wrong for Kenya in World Cup qualifiers?  Fans won’t be allowed to enter Nyayo Stadium for World Cup qualifier match between Kenya vs Rwanda  Don’t politicise Mwendwa arrest, say football stakeholders  Inspection of FKF must continue, Nairobi Senator Sakaja says Milimani senior principal magistrate Wandia Nyamu granted Mwendwa a cash bail of Sh4 million or the alternative of Sh7 million bond with two sureties of the same amount with conditions that he does not access his former office, contact FKF employees or attend any football match.  FKF President Nick Mwendwa (right) with lawyers Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (C) and Lawyer John Khaminwa at Milimani court on Wednesday, November 17, 2021 [Standard]  Mwendwa’s fall from grace began on Thursday last week when Sports CS Amina Mohamed disbanded FKF and appointed a caretaker committee headed by retired Judge Aaron Ringera to lead the federation for six months. He was arrested on Friday and spent the weekend in custody before being brought to court.  He was arrested on Friday and spent the weekend in custody before being brought to court.   By  Ernest Ndunda | 40 minutes ago By Stephen Rutto | 1 hour ago By  Ernest Ndunda | 2 hours ago By Standard Sports | 2 hours ago