Job seekers line up in a long queue as they wait for their names to be called. [File, Courtesy]  The Judicial Service Commission (JSC) has extended the application period for the 553 vacancies with over 60,000 Kenyans already expressed interest.  The commission had announced 500 positions for Court Assistants, 30 drivers, one Senior Public Affairs and Corporate Communications Officer (JSC Secretary), two senior Law Clerks, six Law Clerks, one Risk Management Officer, one senior Electrical Engineer, four senior Quantity Surveyors and a post for a Mechanical Engineer.  Other positions advertised include 10 Charger hand in Judiciary, four Superintendents of Works; a senior Electrical Engineer, one Civil Engineer, one senior Architect, one senior Civil Engineer and one senior Draughtsman.  Just 20 days after JSC had opened an application, their official website crashed in the process due to the high traffic.  Jurists want NIS probed over threats to judges  How verdict on judges puts separation of powers in peril  Judges: Uhuru suffers another blow  Martha Koome: Lack of staff at CJ’s office was my biggest shocker “At the close of application on October 29, the commission had received over 60,000 applications for these vacancies,” JSC said in a statement.  The high turnout exposes the dire situation of joblessness in the country.  Despite the huge turnout, the commission still extended the application, noting that deserving Kenyans could have missed out after their site crashed.  “At a meeting on November 4, the commission noted that notwithstanding the overwhelming response to the advertisement, there is a possibility that some (several) potential candidates were not able to access the application portal due to high traffic and congestion in our system.  “Consequently, the commission has resolved to extend the application window to mitigate against these challenges and to give Kenyans a fair opportunity to be considered for these positions.  The application will re-open on Monday, November, 8th and ends at the close of business (CoB) on November 12, 2021 (5 pm).  To mitigate traffic on the site, those whose applications went through are advised not to re-apply.   Former CJ David Maraga faults president Uhuru for rejecting the appoinment of six judges  Maraga Succession: JSC interviews Alice Yano for the CJ post; Yano was the last candidate to appear  JSC moves to court to seek to overturn a decision by high court barring them from deliberating on CJ By Lynn Kolongei | 6 hours ago By Patrick Kibet  | 6 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 6 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 6 hours ago