Selpher Omenda, 56, could not allow her physical disability to deny her a chance to enlist as a voter.  Ms Omenda's reduced mobility forced her to ride on a wheelbarrow to Irungu primary school in Emuhaya constituency, at least three - kilometres away from her Eshavala village home.  She has never voted before and Omenda can’t wait for August 2022 to be able to exercise her civic right of electing leaders of her choice.  “The IEBC national wide mass voter registration drive presented me with the opportunity to achieve my dream of electing good leaders,” says Omenda.  She is the talk of the village for her determination and commitment.  “People did not expect me to register, I am happy because, despite my situation, I will not be counted among the good people who elect bad leaders by refusing to vote,” she says with a broad smile.  IEBC says it won’t extend voter registration  Court orders IEBC to extend voter listing exercise until November 9  Leaders now in a rush to shore up voter numbers  IEBC commissioner wants voter registration exercise extended Omenda has lived her entire life without being able to walk. She was born with all her legs unable to move and hands unable to hold anything.  With time, she learnt, painstakingly how to use one of her hands but has remained bedridden since she was born.  “My physical disability prevented me in the past to registering as a voter because I could not crawl to the nearby registration centre, I am happy that next year, the story will not be the same.”  Omenda says she has watched people get excited about casting their ballots every electioneering period “and I always looked forward to the day when I would be able to exercise the right to vote.”  Early this year, she successfully applied for the National Identity Card (ID) after many failed attempts in the past.  It was the first stop to Omenda achieving her goal.  "My family and the area chief assisted me to apply for the ID, and for the first time, I felt like a true Kenyan.”  On October 26, she demanded that her cousin Charles Ambundo escort her to register as a voter.  “I eavesdropped neighbours talking about the IEBC voter registration exercise that was about to end and developed an interest.  Charles was willing but the only means of transport was the wheelbarrow.”  She braved riding on a worn-out old wheelbarrow on a dilapidated road to Irungu primary school.  Both IEBC clerks and the people who had gathered at the school to register appeared astonished on seeing Omenda.  They ushered her in and her wish to register as a voter was granted. After missing an opportunity to cast her ballot in the last six General Elections, Omenda says she is excited over the prospect of voting for the first time.  But the IEBC staff were so touched by her condition and determination. Diana Amakobe said she was surprised to see Omenda.  “She was among a handful of people who turned up to register at this centre, surprisingly, she has serious mobility challenges but that did not prevent her from riding to this place.”  Amakobe said she was happy to learn that Omenda wanted to register for the first time.  The exercise took a couple of minutes and Omenda was registered as a voter.  The IEBC clerk could not help but take photos of Omenda which Amakobe shared with IEBC official WhatsApp group accompanied with a brief caption of the woman.  "My bosses were moved by her story and planned to reward Omenda who according to them was the biggest voter we had enlisted during the exercise,” said Amakobe.  The commission’s welfare department under Amos Nyongesa would later visit Omenda’s home and reward her with a brand new wheelchair, a water tank and assorted household items.  According to Nyongesa, the gesture was meant to acknowledge Omenda for her courageous move and demonstration of her true Kenyan spirit.  “Imagine many potential voters that were targeted failed to register but Omenda, despite her condition, managed to do it,” said Nyongesa.  With a wheelchair, Omenda is guaranteed a chance to cast her ballot at Irungu primary school polling station in August 2022.   IEBC roll out voter registration in Makueni County  Lest we forget: The ongoing voter registration exercise  Lest we forget: The voter registration exercise is ongoing in constituencies By Robert Amalemba | 5 hours ago By Robert Amalemba | 1 day ago By Nathan Ochunge | 1 day ago By Alexander Chagema | 1 day ago