National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has challenged political leaders to accept lifestyle audit and disclose their source of wealth. [Courtesy]  National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi says he has a net worth of Sh300 million.  Muturi made the revelation on Twitter on Thursday, November 18 during a Question and Answer session with Twitter users.   The Speaker said he has made his money through business funded by his salary from civil service and bank loans.  He suggested that he owns commercial property that have pushed his net worth to the Sh300 million mark.  Lifestyle Audit Bill won't end graft because no politician can survive without corruption  Mandatory lifestyle audit for public officials gets nod  Mandatory lifestyle audit for public officials gets Senate nod  Why Raila, Ruto hardliners have rolled back their fiery tongues “Most of my property was acquired through bank loans and civil servant remuneration for 36 years,” Muturi said on the micro-blogging site after a Twitter user, Kiptanui (@enock_kiptanui), asked him to reveal his wealth information.  “I support a lifestyle audit on all leaders, plus an explanation of how all their wealth was acquired, and this should not be done in secret,” said Muturi.  The Speaker becomes the first aspirant in the 2022 presidential race to publicly reveal his net worth.  Raila Odinga, who is yet to announce his candidature in the 2022 polls – though all indicators suggest he’d be on the ballot paper – revealed in January 2020 that he had a net worth of Sh2 billion.  Muturi maintains he is firmly in the competition to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta, pledging to facilitate a conducive taxation environment.  Muturi, a lawyer by profession, worked as a district magistrate between 1982 to 1984.  He also worked as a resident magistrate between 1985 to 1989 before being promoted to senior magistrate position. He held the position between 1989 and 1991.  Muturi was first elected to Parliament in a by-election in 1999. He represented Siakago Constituency on a KANU ticket.  In 2002, he was re-elected and served as the Opposition Chief Whip and chairperson of the Public Investment Committee (PIC).  He, however, lost the seat to Lenny Kivuti in the 2007 polls.  In 2013, Muturi attempted a comeback to the National Assembly by running for Mbeere North parliamentary post, but lost to Muriuki Njagagua.  He, however, landed the National Speaker position after being endorsed for the seat by President Uhuru Kenyatta.  Muturi beat former Speaker Kenneth Marende to the seat.   Shujaa Miriam Mathenge azungumza  The intrigues of the Lifestyle Audit Bill 2019  President Uhuru declares war against cancer By Phares Mutembei | 1 hour ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 11 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 19 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 1 day ago Prison break: Kamiti terror convict Joseph Juma Odhiambo unknown in Mumias