Masten Wanjala's father, Robert Wanjala, during an interview with The Standard at his Bungoma home on Tuesday, November 9, 2021. [Benjamin Sakwa, Standard]  The father of slain suspected child killer Masten Wanjala says the Government is yet to hand over his body nearly one month after he was lynched by a mob in Bungoma.  Wanjala had returned to his parents’ home in Namakhela Village in Kabuchai Constituency, where he was attacked in the wee morning hours of October 14.  The suspect had, two days earlier, escaped from Jogoo Road Police Station, where he was being detained pending arraignment.  Robert Wanjala Watila, the deceased’s father, says the government has been silent on the whereabouts of my son’s body.  Ford Kenya to pick presidential candidate tomorrow  Philip Anyolo replaces Cardinal Njue as Nairobi Archbishop  Why serial killer Masten Wanjala could be buried at a river bank   Police officers in Wanjala prison break released on Sh300,000 bond “Two days after my son’s killing, police stormed my home with documents, asking me to sign them. The documents stated that my son had been murdered, and that I, his father, witnessed his postmortem,” said Watila.  “I refused to sign the forms. How could I acknowledge to being a postmortem witness, while in reality I wasn’t?”  At the time, Masten’s body had been preserved at the Bungoma County Referral Hospital morgue.  Robert, 55, says he is yet to get his son’s Certificate of Death as police still treat his killing as an active investigation.  A junior police officer told The Standard that the headquarters was yet to give the greenlight for Wanjala’s body to be handed over to his family.  “I fear that a bad omen could befall my family if my son is not buried in a timely manner according to Bukusu rituals. Masten died with a cloud of crime hanging over his head,” said the father of ten.  Robert further said: “Traditions do not allow Masten to be brought to my homestead through the main gate, but using the fence. I, therefore, urge police to observe these traditions when returning my child’s body.”  “That’s because Masten died in my compound, and not outside the homestead,” he said.  Robert says people who die with a criminal reputation should be buried near the river as per Bukusu traditions, “but I’m not sure if that’s the place I’ll bury my son”.  “If I dare do that, the Government would come after me, saying I encroached on riparian land,” he said. “That leaves me with my homestead as the only burial venue for my child.”  Robert, in a previous interview with The Standard, said he did not take part in his child’s early upbringing.  “My wife, Edna Nabalayo, whom I separated from when she was three months pregnant with Masten, returned the child to me when he was 16 years old. He was already too grown to be taught new ways,” he said.  “I’m yet to speak with Edna since our son’s lynching,” he said.  Masten Wanjala had been charged with 13 counts of murder, with his victims, all minors, spread out in Nairobi, Bungoma and Kajiado counties.   Mama Selina Sendoff: Top leaders expected in Bungoma county to attend burial of Wangamati's Mother  Selina Sendoff: Top leaders expected in Bungoma to attend burial of Wycliffe Wangamati's mother  Mtoto mdogo wa miaka mitano auawa kinyama katika eneo la Tongaren, kaunti ya Bungoma By Alexander Chagema | 4 hours ago By Micah Sali | 17 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 2 days ago By Benard Lusigi | 2 days ago