The family of Mwenda Mbijiwe (above) filed a missing person’s report at the Central Police Station in Nairobi two days after efforts to reach him proved futile. [File, Standard]  Security consultant Mwenda Mbijiwe has gone missing, his family says.  Mbijiwe vanished on Saturday, June 12, with his phone signal last traced to Thika, Kiambu County.  According to the security expert’s sister, Tamara Mbijiwe, Mwenda was travelling to Meru from Nairobi at 8pm, when he disappeared in unclear circumstances.  “He was driving a hired vehicle. We are yet to ascertain which car hire company had leased the vehicle to him,” said Tamara.  Woman reported to police for neglecting ‘her child’ exposed as kidnapper  Distress as kidnappers demand Sh5m ransom for Kamukunji woman  Body of missing businessman Bashir Mohammed found in Kerugoya  Family in agony after kin went missing in 'police custody' “Mwenda had, earlier Saturday, trained a Nairobi-based church on basic security skills, and was to travel to our Meru rural home that evening,” she said.  His friend Denis Nthumbi told The Standard that Mwenda called his mum, who lives in Meru, on Saturday evening to inform her that he was on his way home.  “He had asked her to prepare him Mukimo, saying he’d arrive late in the night,” said Nthumbi.  The family filed a missing person’s report at the Central Police Station in Nairobi two days after efforts to reach him proved futile.  “The DCI detectives have launched a search for my brother,” said Tamara.  Mwenda Mbijiwe is a private security consultant and the founder of Eye On Security (Kenya) Limited. Prior to venturing into private business, Mbijiwe served as a military officer.  Mbijiwe attempted to run for the Meru gubernatorial seat on an ODM ticket in the 2017-General Election but backed out to support the then-governor Peter Munya.   Security Analyst Mwendwa Mbijiwe to contest for Meru gubernatorial seat  Morning Express: State of the Nation - The Al Shabaab attack Pt 4  Morning Express: State of the Nation - The Al Shabaab attack Pt 3 By John Ngumi | 14 minutes ago By Winfrey Owino | 42 minutes ago By Brian Okoth | 1 hour ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 2 hours ago