Businessman Chris Kirubi died on Monday after a long battle with colon cancer. [File, Standard]  Businessman Chris Kirubi will be buried on Saturday, June 19 at his Thika Farm in Kiambu County, Capital FM reports.  A funeral service is scheduled for Friday at the Faith Evangelistic Ministry Church in Karen, Nairobi starting at 11am.  Capital FM reports the billionaire will be laid to rest at 11am in a burial attended by family, friends and invited guests.  The entrepreneur died aged 80 after a long illness.   The soft side: How Kirubi became DJ CK  The final days of Chris Kirubi  Chris Kirubi: Business dealmaker to the last day  President Uhuru Kenyatta mourns businessman Chris Kirubi   Confirming his death in a statement to the public, his family said: “It is with great sadness that we announce the passing of Dr Christopher J Kirubi (1941-2021), who passed on today, Monday the 14th of June, 2021, at 1pm, at his home after a long battle with cancer fought with fortitude, grace and courage.”  Kirubi was diagnosed with cancer in 2017.  He said in past media interviews that he accidentally discovered he had cancer.  In November 2017, the businessman was flown to the US, where he was hospitalised for four months after being diagnosed with colon cancer. He returned to Kenya after nine months.  At the time, he said the cancer was detected early, hence ease of management.  When he came back in mid-2018, he had lost weight, something attributed to the effects of cancer treatment.  His death moved the whole country with leaders from every sector eulogising him as an “industrialist” who contributed immensely to the growth of Kenya’s economy.   Standard Media Group Launch 'The Nairobian defender' at the Capital club, 3rd September, 2015   PERSON OF INTEREST- Businessman Chris Kirubi 7th July 2015   Person Of Interest 7th July 2015, with Sophia Wanuna hosting Chris Kirubi  By Amos Kareithi | 5 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 5 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 5 hours ago By Grace Nganga | 5 hours ago