Deputy President William Ruto has been pushed to the periphery of Jubilee operations. [File, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto will be the guest on KTN News’s Crossfire Show tonight (Thursday, June 24).  The interview, scheduled for 9:30pm, will be hosted by news anchor Sophia Wanuna.  The interview comes on the back of simmering political activities, including realignments in the ruling Jubilee Party.  The Deputy President publicly endorsed the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) on June 19, suggesting he could run for the 2022 presidential election on the outfit’s ticket.  Ruto: I would have appointed the six remaining judges   Ruto: I don’t complain if not assigned duties  Damaged. Dismembered. Destroyed: DP Ruto on Jubilee party  DP Ruto: I doubt Uhuru can back Nasa principal for 2022 race Dr. Ruto has, for a while now, been pushed to the periphery of Jubilee operations despite being the Party’s deputy leader.  On several occasions, his allies have complained – both publicly and in private – that President Uhuru Kenyatta has been running the Party unilaterally, to the extent of proposing changes to the composition of the majority leadership in Parliament without consulting the DP.  On June 15, Ruto suggested on Twitter that President Kenyatta dumped him for Opposition leader Raila Odinga, whom the Head of State is reportedly grooming for presidency in 2022.  “So, what happens to the Thurakus, the kumìrà kùmèrà contingent, the 8 million of us? None, no youth, no woman, no man of the 8 million who woke up early and thrice for UhuRuto ticket merit support?” posed the DP.  “So, was the destruction/dismembering of Jubilee, a national party, meant to pave way for support of regional/tribal parties in Nasa? Now, with the collapse of Jubilee, isn’t it fair for those who can’t fit in ethnic parties to build UDA as an alternative national party? Ama?” he tweeted, again, on June 15.  The DP, in the June 24 interview, is expected to set the record straight on where his political loyalty lies, among other issues.   Ruto asema katiba si lazima wakati huu, Kenya inahitaji kuboresha uchumi kuliko jambo lingine lolote  Karim Khan achukua kiapo cha afisi ya ICC, ana kibarua kikubwa kinachomsubiri  DP Ruto unhappy over reports that President Uhuru was backing plans for the revival of NASA outfit By Betty Njeru | 2 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 2 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 3 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 6 hours ago