Efforts to form a political vehicle for Mt Kenya East are almost complete as key players in the initiative engage in last minute talks.  Reliable sources supporting the formation of the political vehicle said there were plans to launch it as early as this weekend following talks last weekend and early in the week.  Sources said the meetings have mostly been chaired by Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi with representation from some senior politicians from Meru, Embu and Tharaka Nithi counties.  Among those said to have been represented are Governors Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi), Martin Wambora (Embu) and National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, who is being propped by the three and some other Mt Kenya East leaders as the area kingpin.  Also in the talks is National Assembly Deputy Chief whip Maoka Maore who has attended some of the meetings, including one that had the three governors, Muturi and former Embu Senator Lenny Kivuti in Nairobi this week.  Three meetings held in Mount Kenya to lay strategy for the presidency  I never endorsed Muturi as Mt Kenya spokesman, says Munya  Mt Kenya East governors back Muturi bid for unity  Muturi: Impeachment motion a creation of media   According to sources, some of the leaders who have not been part of the plan are Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya and Senator Mithika Linturi.  Munya is allied to Party of National Unity (PNU) that is under the control of his allies while Linturi is the front for the Deputy President William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance (UDA) in Mt Kenya East.  Lawyer Mugambi Imanyara, who is heading the legal front to either form a new outfit or take over and rebrand an existing party, was cagey with details when reached yesterday.  “I was always going to be there because I know the portions of salt, the spices and the additions to make this meal mouthwatering and nutritious," Imanyara said.  Saying the party formation motions were progressing well, he made it clear that he was not about to release any significant information prematurely. "When you are in the kitchen, you can only share when the meal is ready but you have to have the skill to ensure that the diners don't run out of patience."  The 2017 Meru senatorial runner-up is remembered as the man who registered Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) after the 2005 referendum.  A source said the party though having a national outlook will have its backbone in the region.   Mt. Kenya Battle: Section of leaders from Mt. Kenya East threaten to chart their own political path  Speaker Justin Muturi's new role elicits mixed reaction from leaders & people from Mt. Kenya region  N.A Speaker Justin Muturi made Mt. Kenya Spokesman at the Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine in Murang’a By Allan Mungai | 2 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 2 hours ago By Standard Team | 2 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 2 hours ago