South African Cabinet Minister Lindiwe Sisulu is in Kisumu for the Madaraka Day celebrations.  The Minister of Human Settlements, Water and Sanitation jetted in the country on Sunday where she was hosted by former Prime Minister Raila Odinga and his wife Ida Odinga.  “Mama Ida and I hosted Madam Lindiwe Sisulu at our home in Kisumu. Minister Sisulu will be joining other dignitaries during the Madaraka Day celebrations on Tuesday,” said Raila on his Facebook page.  Hosted friends Senator @MoiGideon Ms @LindiweSisuluSA, Minister of Human Settlements, Water and Sanitation of the Republic of South Africa, Kanu Secretary General Hon Nick Salat and Hon Paul Otuoma for breakfast at home before heading for Madaraka Day Celebrations. pic.twitter.com/kqp2nhCc0F — Raila Odinga (@RailaOdinga) June 1, 2021 Minister Sisulu on Sunday also accompanied President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila to Siaya County where they launched the Sh2.4 billion Siaya-Bondo Water and Sanitation Project.  You shot down the people's will, Uhuru tells courts  Handshake duo: From arch-rivals to brothers  Show of might as VIPs bring Kisumu to a halt  Raila roots for Kazi Mashambani for recovery Sisulu is the daughter of South African anti-apartheid activist Walter Sisulu who was a member of the African National Congress (ANC), serving at times as Secretary-General and Deputy President of the organization.  Together with Oliver Tambo and Nelson Mandela, they are celebrated as icons who fought for the liberation struggle in South Africa.  Madaraka Day celebrations will be held in Kisumu at the newly-built Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium on Tuesday.  President Kenyatta is in the lakeside city for a three-day working tour that will include presiding over the festivities.  Burundian President Évariste Ndayishimiye also jetted in Kisumu on Monday for the celebrations. He was received by Raila at Kisumu International Airport.  Only the 3,000 invited guests will be allowed into the venue which has a capacity of 30,000 to maintain social distancing.   Kisumu comes alive during the Madaraka day celebrations, more than 3,000 people attended the fete  Security Breach: Man attempted to access main dias during Madaraka day celebrations in Kisumu  Leaders call for unity among Kenyans during the 58th Madaraka Day National Celebrations in Kisumu By Kevine Omollo and Harold Odhiambo | 2 hours ago By Mactilda Mbenywe | 7 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo and Kevine Omollo | 7 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 7 hours ago ‘Achana naye aende’: Why Uhuru stopped Madaraka Day speech to make these remarks