The three were being treated as prime suspects in the theft. [Mumo Munuve, Standard]  Three security guards of Kivaywa High School who were murdered by unknown assailants in Matete Sub-county were to appear in court over theft of a television set at the school.  Edward Malala, Henry Khaoya and Evans Wanyonyi were booked at Matete Police Station after the school administration reported to the police that a television set had been stolen from the dining hall.  The three were being treated as prime suspects in the theft.  The security guards were murdered by unknown assailants. [Mumo Munuve, Standard]  Thugs kill three watchmen at Kivaywa Secondary School in Kakamega  Kenyan international goalkeeper Matasi breaks silence after car crash  Oparanya dismisses ODM claims Bukhungu stadium built by government  Matasi’s younger sister gives update on his health after car crash Situma Sitikho, one of the guards who survived the attack is fighting for his life at Webuye County Referral Hospital while a fifth guard, Lucas Wanjala, escaped unhurt.  However, police have dismissed the connection of the three murders with the theft incident at the school.  Matete Sub-county Police Commander, Thomas Ototo, termed the killings “a normal crime.”  A section of a crowd that milled at Kivaywa High School. [Mumo Munuve, Standard]  “We already have crucial leads which will help us bring the culprits to book,” Ototo told journalists.  Kakamega County Commissioner Pauline Dola said police had been deployed to man the school as investigations into the matter continue.   Cord leaders attend Moses Weatangula's presidential bid  Villagers in Kakamega County left in shock as woman kills her husband over a plate of githeri  Fear grips residents of Khwisero, Kakamega following a spate of bizarre killings By John Shilitsa and Micah Sali | 14 hours ago By Willy Lusige | 2 days ago By Nathan Ochunge | 2 days ago By Robert Amalemba | 6 days ago Grab a copy of today's Standard & Nairobian Epaper for only 10/-