Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology (MMUST) has its main campus in Kakamega. [File, Standard]  Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology (MMUST) has become the first public university in Kenya to be registered as a TVET institute.  The Kakamega-based university was issued with a registration certificate by the Technical and Vocational Education and Training Authority (TVETA) on June 2, certifying it as a Technical and Vocational College in accordance with the TVETA Act 2021 Section 20 (1).  As a TVET centre, MMUST will operate under the name Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology TVET Institute.  The diploma courses the university will offer under its TVET wing include: General Agriculture, Horticulture, Building Construction, Civil Engineering, Disaster Management, Security and Intelligence, Fitness Instruction and Recreation Management and Sports Coaching (Craft).  Last moments of murdered Masinde Muliro varsity student  Agony of 1,000 Masinde Muliro students as graduation delayed  Third Year Masinde Muliro University student raped, murdered  MMUST vs KCB to highlight Kenya Cup return In September, the university will enroll its pioneer TVET class. Four hundred and eighty (480) students are expected to join, with a maximum of 60 students per course in the upcoming intake.  While receiving the registration certificate and training license on June 2, MMUST’s Acting Vice Chancellor, Prof. Solomon Shibairo, said: “With this recognition, we can now admit students and receive capitation from the Ministry of Education. We believe that these students can transition from the Diploma level and attain a PhD in these courses.”  TVET Director Dr. Samuel Waweru said the recognition is in harmony with the university's vision and mission since MMUST is a science and technology institution.  The registration of MMUST as a TVET institution will be reviewed after five years.  This, however, doesn't affect the institution's bachelor's degree, master's or PhD programmes, as the institution's university status charter remains valid.   MMUST Graduation: Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology Graduation Ceremony By Mumo Munuve | 1 day ago By Wesonga Robert | 1 day ago By XN Iraki | 1 day ago By Mercy Adhiambo | 2 days ago