A villager digs a grave to bury the remains of Moses Gitau. [Jane Mugambi, Standard]  Angry residents of Kibingoti in Ndia, Kirinyaga County on Saturday morning lynched a 28-year-old man suspected to have killed his mother last week.  The man, identified as Moses Gitau, is alleged to have committed the act before escaping to an unknown destination.  Gitau is alleged to have returned recently to kill his brother.  According to Kibingoti Nyumba Kumi Initiative chairperson, John Mwangi, the suspect fled the area on Thursday night after allegedly killing his mother.  Entrepreneur uses farm waste to make organic fertiliser  Kirinyaga Sunday School teacher defiles class five girl  Who abducted, tortured and murdered Bashir?  Sacked Kirinyaga doctors reinstated  Mwangi said Gitau was cornered on Saturday, June 5 by irate residents while attempting to kill his brother, who lives with hearing disability.  Relatives, led by the suspect’s elder sister Lucy Wanja, said they had been living in fear since the killing of their 58-year-old mother Tabitha Muringo Mwai.  “We never knew where he (Gitau) was, or when he would strike,” said Wanja.  Wanja said she spotted Gitau walking towards their brother’s house at 6am Saturday.  She, thereafter, screamed, attracting the attention of neighbours, who gave a chase, cornered and beat the suspect to death.  “We suspect Gitau had come back to kill his brother. His sister, who was awake, saw him and raised the alarm,” said a neighbour.  “We are now at peace. We can meet without any fear while preparing to bury our mother,” said Wanja  Kirinyaga West Sub-County Police Commander Martha Ng'etich said police arrived and took Gitau’s body to the morgue.  “There was a lot of resistance from members of public who wanted to bury him,” she said.  Ng’etich warned members of the public against taking the law into their own hands.   Coffee farmers from Kirinyaga county set to benefit from value-addition machines  Kirinyaga & Narok listed as counties with most opaque budgets after scoring zero points in survey  Angry mob lynch a murder suspect in Nyandarua County By Gerald Mutethia | 5 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 9 hours ago By George Njunge | 10 hours ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 22 hours ago Teacher’s 35-hour ordeal with kidnappers on Eldoret highway