As the continent commemorates the day of the African child (DAC) today, a big population of children in Kenya is still plagued with disease, poverty, abuse and neglect. Statistics from a study implemented by the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection gives a grim reality of the level of abuse that children undergo in silence. According to the Violence Against Children Survey (VACS) that was released last year, One in every two people experience abuse in childhood.  “Violence in childhood is all too common in Kenya, with about 50 per cent of children experiencing it in some form,” Centre of Disease Control (CDC) Kenya country director Marc Bulterys said during the release of the report.    Maniza Zaman, Unicef Representative to Kenya says a child’s first experience of violence is often at home, in their school or in their community, where they should be feeling safe and be protected. This revelation sharply contradicts this year’s theme of: 30 Years After Adoption of the Charter: Accelerate Implementation of Agenda 2040 for Africa Fit for Children”. The theme is meant to evaluate efforts that African countries have taken to restore the dignity of the African child.    Father accused of child neglect told to clear fees balance  SOS Children’s Village apologises over child abuse, corruption  Man in court for defiling daughter  Neglect of farmers by State appalling, curtails drive to grow exports Solid aspirations  The Agenda sets out 10 solid aspirations to be achieved by the year 2040. They include: having every child’s birth and other vital statistics registered, protecting children against violence, exploitation, neglect and abuse, freeing children from the impact of armed conflicts and other disasters or emergency situations, giving them quality education and making their views matter.  The African Committee of Experts on the Rights and Welfare of the Child (ACERWC) that has been leading the commemoration of the DAC since 2002 emphasised on the importance of child participation in issues affecting them. “The African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child provides for child participation where the views of children matter and must be heard and to ensure that their views are meaningfully channeled and taken into account,” said a report released by ACERWC.  Different stakeholders noted that there are no systems in place that would allow for children to express their needs and desires.  “Children are treated as subordinates who are punished when they voice their feelings. They are not even allowed to cry and express their emotions in most families. They are repressed and some of them are bearing big emotional burdens with nobody to help them,” said Gladys Ng’ang’a, a child counsellor who is urging parents to allow children to share their feelings, triumphs and losses.  “Parents should make deliberate efforts to ask their children how their day was. They should treat children as individuals with fears, ambitions, emotions, and human feelings. If adults are allowed to be angry and to have a bad day, why aren’t children allowed the same?” she said.  [Mercy Adhiambo]      Anglican priest arraigned in court for defiling his 7 year old niece  Makala maalum: Kimya Saliti (Part 2)  IDP's in Naivasha threaten to move and set up their tents in state house By Amos Kareithi | 4 hours ago By Kamau Ngotho | 4 hours ago By Dominic Omondi | 4 hours ago By Tony Mochama | 4 hours ago The final days of Chris Kirubi