Nativity Mutindi was arrested last week in connection to the murder of Shantel Nzembi. [Peterson Githaiga, Standard]  The main suspect in the murder of 8-year-old Shantel Nzembi, Nativity Mutindi Nthuku, will remain in police custody for eight more days.  This is after police investigating the murder asked a Kajiado court for more time to complete their investigations before the suspect takes a plea.  The suspect was arraigned in court alongside Patrick Muriithi, who is also a suspect in the case and is to be arraigned again on Tuesday, June 15.     Mother hangs self after setting house on fire with her four children inside  Detectives relying on CCTV camera for clues into Rongai murder  Police arrest woman, main suspect in murder of 8-year-old in Kitengela  Kisauni woman found with hands tied to steering wheel, boyfriend killed  On June 4, police nabbed 27-year old Nativity at Kitengela/Athi River border.  So far three other suspects, Lavington Otengo, 27, and Francis Mbuthia, 42, have been arrested for the kidnap and subsequent murder of the Grade Two pupil.  Otengo, a Boda Boda rider, was arrested on Wednesday, June 2, at Orata after he was allegedly found with a mobile phone police believe was used to demand ransom from the minor’s parents.  Mbuthia, who was arrested at Kiserian, is the owner of the ID used to register the line that received the ransom money.   The body of Shantel Nzembi was found dumped in a thicket in the Orata area by a passerby who reported the matter at Kitengela police station.  Police officers who rushed to the scene found the body wrapped in a sack with multiple injuries.   Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death  The widow of Jacob Juma has accused police of dragging their feet in the hunt for Juma’s killers By Mireri Junior | 2 days ago By Standard Reporter | 2 days ago By Stephen Nzioka | 2 days ago By Peterson Githaiga | 3 days ago