National security is among the dockets that will be the biggest spenders in the 2021-2022 budget.  The ministry has been allocated Sh294.5 billion, which will be used to support operations of the National Police Service, Defence and National Intelligence Service.  Defence will get Sh119.8 billion, National Intelligence Service (NIS) will have Sh42.5 billion and Sh110.6 billion will be allocated to Policing and Prisons services. Defence is among the top five ministry allocations, coming in third after treasury and health ministries. Of independent offices and commissions, NIS has gotten the second highest allocation after Teachers Service Commission.    The budget for Defence ministry has been on an upward trajectory, but in this financial year, it has been cut by about Sh2.5 billion. NIS budget has also significantly reduced. The spy masters  had been allocated Sh45 billion last financial year which has been reduced by Sh3 billion this financial year.  It’s pain, tears and debt in Yatani’s budget  Gloom blooms amid Budget optimism  China passes national security law in turning point for Hong Kong  Sh1.7b floating bridge to be put up in Likoni To enhance easier movement of security teams, the government has set aside Sh10.7 billion for leasing of motor vehicles. In line with the modernisation programmes that government agencies have been instructed to embark on, treasury has set aside Sh1 billion.  The security agencies are also expected to improve their surveillance after being allocated a significant amount of money. “I have set aside Sh1.5 billion for the national communication and surveillance system, and Sh335 million to equip National Forensic Laboratory,” said Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani.      President Uhuru announces measures that he hopes will finally do away with corruption  Information Bill 2015: Kenyans and the media to have right to access information held by government  Parliamentary committee on national security wants Interior ministry to account for Ksh 160 billion By Macharia Kamau | 1 hour ago By Wainaina Wambu | 1 hour ago By Wainaina Wambu | 1 hour ago By Mercy Kahenda | 5 hours ago