The oldest political party in Kenya KANU has begun a major campaign to recruit new members as it readies for next year's general election.   Unveiling new interim officials for Nairobi County on Saturday, branch chair Frank Mbogo said that the party has put in place mechanisms to address issues in real-time.  “Our branch will focus on kufufua biashara,” Mbogo said in an address to the media in Nairobi.  Mbogo unveiled a team of eight officials that will spearhead party activities in the city. It comprises Jamila Mustapha (Vice-Chair), Charles Mc'Olonde (Secretary), Florence Koros (Vice - Secretary), Allan Mbaya (Treasurer), Rose Muhoro (Vice-Treasurer) and Ruth Muesa (Organising - Secretary).  Others are Joshua Aluoch (Branch Vice-Organising-Secretary), Florence Kamau (Executive Officer) and Mboya Brian (Vice-Executive-Officer).  Shahbal ditches Jubilee, eyes ODM ticket   I'm ready to face your coalition, DP Ruto now tells Uhuru and Raila   Kenya’s leadership is dead, who will emerge and lead?  Twice bitten: Kalonzo says he would be stupid to back Raila in 2022 election He also revealed plans to collaborate with the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce, Nairobi branch, to recruit members from small and mid-size enterprises (SMEs).  “We have sat down with the chambers of commerce and we will collaborate with SMEs to revive businesses. We will show them what is possible now as a testament of what a KANU government can achieve,” said Mbogo.  "KANU is conducting a members mobilization exercise that will see new members register online through the KANU app and physical registration at KANU offices countrywide. The general public will register via the USSD Code *483*04# or web portal www join.kanuparty.org," he explained.  Frank Mbogo, seated centre, poses for a photo with Nairobi County interim branch officials. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  “We have a free online registration going on and the response is very good. We believe Kura iko mashinani na tutaifikia,” added Betty Adhere, KANU Women Congress national chair.    The grassroot mobilization by KANU comes days after a plan was mooted to establish a coalition pact between Jubilee Party and ODM.  KANU has a working MoU with Jubilee and is likely to get a ‘political share’ in the coalition talks that are being spearheaded by the Jubilee Secretary-General Raphael Tuju and ODM MP Junet Mohammed.    Strengthening KANU: Nairobi branch leaders met to discuss party restructuring ahead of 2022  Coalition Jitters: DP Ruto faults Jubilee and ODM coalition, says hustlers will back UDA  Nguvu za KANU: Tawi la Nairobi la Kanu lakutana kujadili mikakati watakayotumia 2022 By Jacob Ng’etich | 3 hours ago By Benard Sanga and Ishaq Jumbe | 3 hours ago By The Standard | 3 hours ago By Robert Kiplagat  | 4 hours ago