A screengrab of Deputy President William Ruto during the interview at his Karen home on Thursday night.  Deputy President William Ruto has said he is doubtful President Uhuru Kenyatta would throw his weight behind a Nasa principal in the run-up to the 2022 general election.  Speaking on KTN News on Thursday night, DP Ruto said, “I doubt the president would ever tell anybody that kind of thing.”  The DP was responding to queries on his tweet on the alleged proclamation by Uhuru that he would back a Nasa principal in next year’s general election.  ????‍??????‍??????????‍??????????‍??EUCHO!!NGAI FAFA MWATHANI!! So, what happens to the Thurakus, the kumìrà kùmèrà contingent, the 8 million of us?? None, no youth, no woman, no man of the 8M who woke up early and voted 3 times for UK/WsR ticket merit support? Sawa tu! Tutajipanga na support ya MUNGU. pic.twitter.com/nz0oIxw86k  Ruto: I don’t complain if not assigned duties  Damaged. Dismembered. Destroyed: DP Ruto on Jubilee party  To break up or not: The big Raila, NASA gamble  Three NASA principals plot to ditch Raila Cannot discuss my boss  Questioned further, the DP said he cannot discuss his boss. "It is not good manners to discuss your boss. I want to avoid as much as possible what the president has said".  He added, "It is not correct for me to discuss my boss in a TV interview".  Ruto is increasingly relying on Twitter to get the word out.  He said people who attended the meeting, including Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, said the president made no such declarations.  Ruto further added that his tweet was a reaction to a newspaper headline and not the president.  "Newspapers have the tendency of saying all manner of things - insinuations, sometimes half-truths," he said.  The DP went on: "I don't think either myself or the president will forget that there were millions of Kenyans who believed in us and who voted for us."  Ruto said if he does not fit the bill, "there are many other people in Jubilee".  The deputy president added that when he chose to support President Uhuru Kenyatta, it was not conditional. "I did not tell him I am supporting him so he can support me."  He said neither the president nor any community owes him a debt that would be repaid in support of the 2022 poll.  Ruto has in the past said he is ready for the planned coalition between Jubilee and ODM parties.  He, however, lamented the ‘killing’ of Jubilee.  Ruto has pledged to have a national party that would unite all regions ahead of the 2022 elections.   Mwisho wa Jubilee? Kuna tetesi kuwa Rais Uhuru ataunga mkono NASA na wala si Naibu Rais Ruto  Raila and Kalonzo's unity plot ahead of 2022 general elections | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  HEALTH WATCH: Scientists working on developing vaccine that comes in form of a pill & nasal spray By Betty Njeru | 2 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 2 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 6 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 7 hours ago