Politicians in Mt Kenya region are holding meetings in their respective backyards to boost their chances of succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta.  With an estimated six million voters in the mountain region, politicians in the past two weeks have been holding strategy meetings with their allies, and making new friends as they seek to consolidate the voting block ahead of next year's General Election.  Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria last week met delegations from Kiambu, Nyeri, Nyandarua and Laikipia counties to promote his Usawa Kwa Wote Party. Iria has declared interest to run for president next year.    And a week ago, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi pitched camp at Kenya Njeru AKC Church, Kangema, Murang’a, where he called for unity in the region amid the political transition.  On Sunday, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka toured parts of Ithanga in Gatanga as a camp allied to businessman Jimmy Wanjigi held town hall meetings in Murang’a and neighbouring counties.  BBI impact and why it's difficult to postpone polls  Uhuru drops erstwhile loyalists as Raila joins kitchen cabinet  Mt Kenya leaders reassure Raila on 2022  ODM leader Raila Odinga's son registered in Mudavadi's party Peter Karugu, a youth leader from Nyandarua, said their meeting with Governor Iria was centred on politics, development and emerging issues ahead of next year's elections.  “Our main agenda was how to popularise Usawa Kwa Wote party in Kiambu and Nyandarua where aspirants for next year's elections have shown interests,” said Karugu adding that politicians from outside the region have sent their emissaries to scout for strong political pillars.  Iria founded the party three years ago and recruitment of new members is ongoing.  Martha Njeri, a woman leader from Laikipia said they plan to take the party across Mt Kenya region and beyond.  The governor said he had met with political leaders from western, coast and eastern region. He said he seeks to transform the country through similar agricultural projects in Murang’a. The projects include value addition in dairy and avocado farming.  “This country requires a leader who can promote agriculture and ensure food security through expanding the existing irrigation projects and provision of drought-resistant crops,” said Iria.   Three weeks ago, Murang’a was a centre of interest as leaders from Kikuyu Council of Elders and Kiama Kima converged at Mumbi grounds to condemn the installation of Muturi as Gema spokesman a month ago.         Rift in Mt. Kenya with Kikuyu Elders divided over Muturi's installation as spokesman of the region  Mt. Kenya Battle: Section of leaders from Mt. Kenya East threaten to chart their own political path  Speaker Justin Muturi's new role elicits mixed reaction from leaders & people from Mt. Kenya region By Betty Njeru | 2 hours ago By Roselyne Obala | 17 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 18 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 18 hours ago