Dr Zweli Mkhize has denied any personal wrongdoing. [Reuters]  South African President Cyril Ramaphosa has put his health minister, Zweli Mkhize, on special leave.  This is after allegations that his department irregularly awarded COVID-19-related contracts to a communications company controlled by his former associates arose.  Before Ramaphosa's statement, the minister apologised for the public rage over the allegations.  The latest in a series linked to coronavirus-related tenders that have angered a public suffering pandemic-induced economic hardship.  South Africa Covid-19 cases surpass 300,000, says health ministry  Uhuru condoles Mandela family  South Africa to keep 20,000 soldiers on COVID-19 duty until September  South Africa's hotspot limits most testing to above age 55 Mkhize has denied any personal wrongdoing.  Ramaphosa, who has promised that graft during the COVID-19 pandemic will be dealt with harshly, said the special leave would enable Mkhize to answer an investigation into contacts between his department and service provider Digital Vibes.  Mkhize said: "I fully acknowledge and take personal responsibility for the public outrage that has been caused by this Digital Vibes contract."  "The negative discourse has tainted the teamwork of our government that is led by the president in our continued efforts to fight COVID-19. For all of this I want to unreservedly apologise," he added.  Minister of Tourism Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane will serve as acting minister of health until further notice, Ramaphosa's office said.  The Special Investigating Unit has said a probe it is conducting is nearing completion. The report will be given to Ramaphosa to decide on further action.  In May, Mkhize said a forensic investigation had found that the process of appointing Digital Vibes, headed by his former personal assistant and secretary, was irregular, as was more than 150 million rands ($11 million) paid to the firm.  Daily Maverick, which first broke the news of the contract in February, said the firm was appointed in late 2019 to provide communications services for the government's National Health Insurance roll-out.  The scope of work was extended in March 2020 to include COVID-19-related communication.  ($1 = 13.5644 rand)   South Sudanese define their road to peace | Bottomline Africa  How Raila Odinga brokered peace between South Sudan President Kiir and Rebel leader Machar By Brian Okoth | 1 hour ago By Reuters | 1 day ago By Reuters | 1 day ago By Winfrey Owino | 2 days ago