Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia (C) views an artist’s impressions of the Sh1.5 billion hospital. [James Munyeki, Standard]  The construction of a 500-bed complex at the JM Kariuki Memorial Hospital in Nyandarua has started.  Presiding over the groundbreaking ceremony of the Sh1.5 billion project, Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia said once complete, the facility will be a game-changer in the provision of healthcare in the county.  Kimemia said the hospital is expected to attain Level 6 status after the upgrading of its infrastructure.  “Today is really a milestone for the great people of Nyandarua.  JM Kariuki:They wanted him dead by any means  You are enemies of development, Governor Kimemia tells critics  Kimunya and Kimemia fight over trees project  My life is in danger, claims reinstated speaker "It is a day we are witnessing the launch of a megaproject that will transform healthcare provision in the county,” he said.  He said the five-story complex will be a great honour to former Nyandarua North MP, the late JM Kariuki, who the hospital is named after.  “For us, the word ‘groundbreaking’ stands for more than the literal breaking of the ground.  "It is an honour to one of the greatest sons of Nyandarua, the late JM Kariuki, who was a champion of social justice," he said.  The governor said once complete, the hospital will complement other health projects established across the county.  He added: “Being a referral hospital, the facility will provide services to patients from all five sub-counties.”  The project is to be completed in three years. Dr Njenga Mungai, the Nyandarua Health executive said the new complex will have a 144-bed mother and child unit.  Dr Mungai said the hospital will also have an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) with 12 fully-equipped beds, a 10-bed High Dependency Unit (HDU), three operating theatres, and a 48-bed casualty ward.  “We expect that once completed, this hospital will provide referral services to all five sub-counties.  "It will be one of a kind in this region, if not the country," said Dr Mungai.    Kinara wa cord apinga Jinsi serikali inavyotekeleza uteuzi wa maafisa   Former Kenyan secretary to the cabinet Francis Kimemia forgives those who linked him to corruption  Eugene Wamalwa ateuliwa waziri huku Francis Kimemmia akitemwa kufuatia mabadiliko serikalini By Gerald Mutethia | 1 day ago By Gerald Mutethia | 2 days ago By Ndungu Gachane | 2 days ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 4 days ago