Medical reports show the minors were defiled. [File, Standard]  A 49-year-old man was on Thursday, June 17 arrested for allegedly defiling his two underage daughters in Elgeyo Marakwet County.  Luka Rutto alias Cherambach, suspected to have defiled his daughters aged four and six was nabbed by offices from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI).  Rutto is believed to have committed the heinous act while living alone with the minors after he and their mother separated.  According to DCI, a PP1 teacher at the local school where the girls attend noticed something unusual in how the six-year-old was behaving.  CMA probes Cytonn funds for ‘criminal violations’  Three arrested over murder of street boy   Abducted boy from Thika found safe, suspect arrested  4-year-old boy who went missing reunited with parents The minor experienced difficulties in walking and was often crying. Attempts by the teacher to get more information from the little girl turned futile.  When the teacher reportedly summoned her younger sister, who is also a pupil at the same school, she was also undergoing pain and difficulty in walking.    After talking to the little girls, they said that they only lived with their father, after their mother left their home, a fact the area assistant chief confirmed.  The headteacher informed reported the matter to the police leading to the arrest of Cherambach.  Medical examination at Iten County Referral Hospital confirmed that the two minors had been defiled.  “They escorted the minors to Iten County Referral Hospital for medical examination, where the doctors established that the little angels had been defiled.”  The man is in police custody, pending further investigations.   Finally Justice for Kwekwe's family after Court sets a date  Police officers convicted of killing 14 year old Kwekwe Mwandaza to know their fate on Monday  Two police men convicted of manslaughter By Gilbert Kimutai | 22 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 day ago By Stephen Rutto | 2 days ago By Stephen Rutto | 3 days ago