Acting director-general of Kenya Water Towers Agency Tower Julius Tanui, receives his insignia from Environment and Forestry Principal Secretary Chris Kiptoo.  The water agency boss has been feted for his contribution to planting two million trees to save the Mau forest which is the country's biggest water tower.  Acting director-general of Kenya Water Towers Agency Tower Julius Tanui, yesterday received his insignia from Environment and Forestry Principal Secretary Chris Kiptoo.  Dr Kiptoo congratulated the water agency boss for exceptional service in water towers.  Prof Tanui received the Presidential award in the category of Elder of the Order of the Burning Spear (E.B.S.) for his innovation of Heuristic Model in Natural Resource Management which was also subject of his PhD research.  Kenya's forest communities face eviction from ancestral lands  Tension in Narok South as two boys killed  Court ruling puts fate of Mau water tower on the balance  State targets to plant 470m trees by 2022 He was one of the awardees who received insignias during the 57th Jamhuri Day in December 2020.  Tanui has overseen the recovery and rehabilitation of 52,000 acres in Maasai Mau Forest and the planting of two million trees.  The eviction of families from the Mau Forest in 2019 sparked protest but this has seen the recovery of Mau Forest Complex which is key to the survival Masai Mara and Seregeti National Reserves. Residents downstream are also witnessing increased volume of water from the Mara River.   The wildebeest migration across Mara River dubbed the 8th Wonder of the World greatly depends on water from the Mau Complex water tower.  The annual scenic event is classified by UNESCO World Heritage as one of the most impressive nature spectacles in the world.  The award was also in recognition of the launch of national bamboo demonstration site that Kenya Water Towers Agency established last year at Kaptagat forest in Elgeyo-Marakwet County.  This followed the Cabinet’s approval of bamboo as a scheduled crop paving the way for commercial growing.  The demonstration site will act as education centre for farmers across the country.  Orders, decorations, and medals of Kenya are awarded by the President in recognition of outstanding or distinguished services rendered to the nation in various capacities and responsibilities.  Awards are made by the President upon the advice of a National Honours and Awards Committee in the president's office. The Chief of the Order of the Golden Heart is the highest honour awarded by the government.  jngetich@standardmedia.co.ke      The Next Frontier; How technology and conservation is employed to minimize environmental damage  Jubilee government embarks on eviction of squatters in a bid to save forests  Narok’s county commissioner refute claims by an MP that he is plotting to grab land in Mau forest By Amos Kareithi | 4 hours ago By Kamau Ngotho | 4 hours ago By Dominic Omondi | 4 hours ago By Tony Mochama | 4 hours ago The final days of Chris Kirubi