ODM leader Raila Odinga with Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka in Nairobi on May 31, 2019. [Dennis Kavisu, Standard]  Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has said he will not support Raila Odinga in the 2022 General Election.  Speaking to NTV on Wednesday night, Kalonzo said he has been humiliated under the NASA outfit together with his co-principals, and would not consider teaming up again.  The former vice president said he is getting ready for 2022 with the intention of walking away from Raila, whom he says he has deputised twice in 2013 and 2017.  "As of now, it is unthinkable that one Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka would support Raila for the third time," he said, adding that if all fails he would rather retire and go back to his Tseikuru home.  Raila returns to Coast today amid a lull  Degrees: Aspirants have no excuse  Tyranny of numbers: The blocs and votes that will shape 2022 poll  Jimi Wanjigi: Silent kingmaker joins race to succeed Uhuru Kalonzo said since the last election he has not discussed 2022 plans with Raila.  He went on to say that he has felt cheated and played by the ODM leader. According to the Wiper leader, supporting Raila in 2022 would make him the most "stupid fellow on earth".  He said at his age he needs to focus on his political ambitions.  Kalonzo further ruled out deals that would have him back Raila for a term and expect him to return the favour in a subsequent election.  "I have heard this story before," the Wiper leader added.  On reviving Nasa, Kalonzo said the ball is in the court of ODM since it killed the coalition at the Kibra by-election.  "Their own secretary-general announced that Nasa is dead ... it would require a miracle to rebuild that confidence," Kalonzo said.  He went on, "When you have a breach of trust at that level, where leaders cannot meet, [they] call each other names ... then it will require a miracle."  The former vice president criticized Deputy President William Ruto for questioning President Uhuru Kenyatta’s political allegiance after the president declared he will back a Nasa candidate in the succession race.  Ruto accused the president of intentionally destroying the Jubilee Party to pave way for the support of regional and tribal parties.  The only way Kalonzo would consider working with Raila, he says, is when the ODM leader assures the newly-formed One Kenya Alliance that he [Raila] will not be on the ballot.  The outfit dubbed One Kenya Alliance’ brings together Kalonzo, Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi, Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula.  Mudavadi, Kalonzo, Gideon and Wetang’ula have partnered ahead of next year’s General Election.  The One Kenya Alliance’s emergence follows a fallout between Raila and his National Super Alliance (Nasa) principals Mudavadi, Kalonzo and Wetang’ula.  The four leaders came together under Nasa in 2017 to challenge President Uhuru Kenyatta’s re-election.  But the fallout, which started showing signs after Raila’s Handshake with Uhuru, was triggered last month by demands by Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula that it was time for the ODM leader to back one of them in next year’s polls.  Raila hit out at the three, calling them cowards for abandoning him at the hour of need during his 2018 swearing-in as the people’s president.   DP Ruto challenges Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka to unite and face him in the 2022 elections  Raila and Kalonzo's unity plot ahead of 2022 general elections | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  Politicians breaking their backs to get young voters on their side ahead of 2022 By Fred Kagonye  | 19 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 1 day ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 2 days ago By Harold Odhiambo | 3 days ago