Several people including six police officers spent the weekend in police cells after they were detained for breaching Covid-19 protocols in Kisumu County.  The six Nakuru-based police officers were found partying at a popular bar in Nyamasaria, Kisumu County, and detained at Kondele Police Station.  A police report seen by The Standard indicated that the cops did not resist arrest and will be arraigned in court on Monday alongside those nabbed at different locations for flouting directives aimed at taming the spread of the virus.  This came as authorities, led by County Commissioner Josephine Ouko, heightened patrols to ensure that residents observed the revised curfew hours that now start at 7pm.  Police officers arrest a curfew violator in Kisii town. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  Qatar says only vaccinated fans allowed at World Cup 2022  Tough measures as Covid-19 cases rise in lakeside counties  Pandemic turned newsrooms into mental asylums  Respect president's order on political gatherings In Muhoroni, a family was forced to bury their kin, Risper Juma, at 4am on Saturday for breaching the protocols.  The family had reportedly acquired a burial permit to inter Risper on Friday but failed to do so within the stipulated hours and kept the body for a night vigil.  County Commander Samuel Anampiu said that the burial was supervised by police officers.  “Acting on intelligence, a multi-agency team comprising of the Deputy County Commissioner, the sub-county police commander, and the sub-county criminal investigations officer visited the home,” said Anampiu.  On Thursday, the government imposed a dusk to dawn curfew on 13 Lake Region Economic Block counties to curb the spread of the virus.  “All offenders will be nabbed,” warned Nyanza regional traffic boss Mwangi Nganga.   Tracking Covid-19: Kenya records 324 new cases, 10 deaths in last 24 hours  Covid Downward Trend: Kenya records 86 new Covid-19 cases with positivity rate now at 3.1%  HEALTH WATCH: Scientists working on developing vaccine that comes in form of a pill & nasal spray By Isaiah Gwengi | 3 hours ago By Mactilda Seline Mbenywe | 5 hours ago By James Omoro | 1 day ago By Caleb Kingwara | 1 day ago