Traffic on a section of the Nairobi Expressway in Westlands area. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  Motorists intending to use the Capital Centre access and Waiyaki Way in Westlands from Monday next week will have to seek alternative routes.  The Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA) has announced the temporary closure of the two Nairobi roads from Monday, June 28, to allow for the ongoing construction of the Nairobi Expressway.  KeNHA Director General Eng Peter Mundinia said they will close the Capital Centre access along Mombasa Road for 20 days, from June 28- July 17, 2021.  The ramp along Waiyaki way to Forest Road will be closed to motorists and pedestrians for 34 days from Monday, June 28 to Sunday, August 1.  Update: All workers at collapsed Kangemi bridge accounted for- KeNHA  Four people rescued, several trapped as bridge collapses on Waiyaki Way  Three killed after car hits motorbike outside city hotel  New expressway will untie city traffic knots Traffic flow along Capital Centre, Mombasa Road. [KeNHA]  Motorists are advised to seek alternative means to access their destinations and avoid inconveniences.  Flow of traffic from the ramp in Waiyaki Way to Forest road. [KeNHA]  Further, the Authority has provided alternative routes for motorists stuck along the Nairobi- Nakuru Highway due to the ongoing 2021 World Rally Championship.  All heavy goods vehicles are advised to use the Rironi- Mai Mahiu- Naivasha route, which is about 58 kilometres.  Those stranded from Naivasha to Nakuru can either use the;  i)Njabini flyover near Soko Mjinga Market. (Njabini- Engineer- Olkalou- Ol Joro Orok- Dundori- Lanet  ii)Naivasha- Engineer- Olkalou- Ol Joro Orok- Dundori- Lanet or  iii) Gilgil- Olkalou- Ol Joro Orok- Dundori- Lanet (Nakuru).      Triumphant Shujaa team returns home to a heroic welcome from winning the Singapore 7’s  Abiria wanusurika kifo baada ya ajali kutokea katika eneo la Kibarani, Mombasa  Two people die in a grisly road accident along Mombasa Road By Winfrey Owino | 4 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura | 8 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 8 hours ago By Dominic Omondi | 8 hours ago