Many commuters were caught unawares.   Empty streets, long walks in search of public transport and bands of stranded passengers looking for matatus were the hallmarks of yesterday’s Nairobi Metropolitan Services’ (NMS) quest to decongest the city.  For the third time, NMS conducted a test run at the Green Park bus terminus in Nairobi, an exercise aimed at partial operationalisation of the station.   Although the NMS said it is confident that the terminus is ready for commissioning, Director of Roads and Public Works, Engineer Michael Ochieng, admitted that there were teething problems, which he said would be handled through a multi-agency model involving NMS and the Kenya Railways.  NMS conducted a test run at the Green Park bus terminus in Nairobi. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  Dilapidated City Mortuary gets facelift after NMS intervention  NMS postpones third test run of Green Park Terminus  Courts have not declared NMS illegal: Solicitor-General  How NMS plans to clean ‘city under the sun’ Ochieng added that when the plan is fully implemented, a bus route from the Nairobi Commuter Rail station will be established to ferry the disabled, the elderly, pregnant women and mothers with children.  Rides for disadvantaged and vulnerable groups will be free from the terminus to the Central Business District (CBD), a decision he said resulted from negotiations between the NMS and the railway service.  “This test is for confirming that the terminus can handle full capacity from the areas we are decongesting in the CBD,” Ochieng said.   Rides for disadvantaged and vulnerable groups will be free. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  He however observed that there were still challenges with pick-up points and a few notorious drivers flouting the terminus rules.  “When we commission the terminus, we will enforce the requirements from passengers and bus crews accordingly,” Ochieng said.  There were still challenges with pick-up points. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  Many commuters were caught unawares as they went to board vehicles from normal termini at the Ambassadeur, Kencom and Railways stages, while at the Green Park terminus, hordes of stranded travelers waited long hours for PSVs.  NMS trucks barricaded the matatu stops, with heavy security from both City County askaris and police officers to ensure no matatus picked up or dropped passengers at the bus stops. The Green Park terminus is one of six termini the NMS is setting up to decongest the CBD, and is expected to serve commuters to and from Kikuyu, Ngong’, Kawangware, Dagoretti, Kibera, Highrise and Ngumo.  Other PSV routes to be served by the new terminus include Rongai, Kiserian, Langata, Otiende, Madaraka and Nairobi West.?  The terminus is located at the former Railways Club and has replaced several PSV stops in the CBD, among them Ambassadeur, Moi Avenue Service Lane, Nairobi Railway Station Bus Terminus, Hakati and Kencom.  Ochieng added that when the plan is fully implemented, a bus route from the Nairobi Commuter Rail station will be established to ferry the disabled, the elderly, pregnant women and mothers with children. Ochieng added that when the plan is fully implemented, a bus route from the Nairobi Commuter Rail station will be established to ferry the disabled, the elderly, pregnant women and mothers with children.   NMS carry out another trial run at the Green Park bus terminus to assess the level of preparedness  Nairobi CBD flooded by heavy overnight rains  NMS ikishirikiana na ofisi ya msemaji wa serikali yazindua rasmi utoaji wa chanjo ya Korona, Nairobi By Isaiah Gwengi | 3 hours ago By Mactilda Seline Mbenywe | 5 hours ago By Standard Team | 6 hours ago By Clement M Masombo | 10 hours ago