Charles King’ori alias Delvin Maina, the suspect arrested for allegedly abducting a four-year-old boy in Thika on June 2. The boy was rescued in Naivasha town on Monday, June 7. [Courtesy]  Detectives from the Directorate Criminal Investigation (DCI) on Monday arrested a suspect behind the abduction of a four-year-old boy who went missing on June 2.  Charles King’ori alias Delvin Maina, was last seen with Liam Ngushwa five days ago at Dakim area in Thika before he went missing.  Kingori was arrested in Naivasha town following a dramatic chase in the streets of the town witnessed by members of the public.  The arrest came a few hours after the boy was rescued from where he had been allegedly hidden by the suspect in Naivasha town.  4-year-old boy who went missing reunited with parents  Teacher’s 35-hour ordeal with kidnappers on Eldoret highway  Why reporting stolen phones to police is teary affair for victims  How bus conductor saved girl who had been lured by stranger to Mombasa According to the DCI, the suspect has been playing a cat-and-mouse game with the detectives for the last five days.  King’ori changed his hairstyle and opted on using a motorbike to move around in an attempt to escape the police.  “He had visited a salon in Naivasha town to have his hair braided to conceal his identity,” revealed the DCI.  Detectives, however, pounced on him as he escaped on a getaway motorbike.  DCI thanked members of the public for volunteering vital information that the detectives used to pursue and arrest the suspect.  According to Liam’s mother Agnes Maina, her son is safe and happy to reunite with them.  Maina said she was happy the suspect never harmed the boy, adding that he told the police he wanted money from us.  He did not harm the boy, he said he wanted money from us and opted to kidnap the boy so that we could give him cash,” she told The Standard on phone.   Finally Justice for Kwekwe's family after Court sets a date  Police officers convicted of killing 14 year old Kwekwe Mwandaza to know their fate on Monday  Two police men convicted of manslaughter By Jael Mboga and Paul Ogemba | 1 hour ago By Muriithi Mugo | 3 hours ago By Wainaina Wambu | 11 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 11 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements