The new Green Park Bus terminus designated by NMS at the Nairobi Railways Club. [David Gichuru, Standard]  The Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS) has postponed the Green Park Terminus third test run that was to take place tomorrow to Friday, June 18 from 5am to 9pm.  This the NMS says is to enable information reach the public and stakeholders in the matatu sector for adequate preparation and participation in the activity.  "Public Service Vehicles operating from Moi Avenue Service Lane will also be affected," NMS said.  During the test run, all matatus will be banned from driving and parking in the capital’s Central Business District, including dropping and picking of passengers.  Ministry of Sports: 2000 athletes, officials have been vaccinated against COVID-19  NMS gets Sh48.3 billion in budget to smoothly manage county functions  Varsities, NMS biggest losers in Supplementary Budget changes  High Court hits Uhuru again, revokes 2020 Executive Order Public Service Vehicles plying Langata Road, Ngong Road and Argwings Kodhek Road routes will be affected as well.  “Other PSVs from Highrise, Ngumo, Rongai, Kiserian, Otiende, Langata, Madaraka and Nairobi West estates will also be affected,” NMS said.  Machakos and Kitengela bound PSVs operating from the Nairobi Railway Station Bus terminus will use Lusaka Road from Nyayo Stadium roundabout to Hakati Bus Terminus where Langata and Nairobi West/ Madaraka vehicles operate from.  On May 28, the NMS conducted a test run similar to what is expected tomorrow as it looks forward to commissioning the terminus in a few weeks, for drop-offs and pick-ups of passengers.  A month prior to that, NMS had carried out the first test run to assess the possibility of implementing the gradual removal of public service vehicles from the Central Business District (CBD) to the new terminal.  In April, NMS said commuters will use the Non-Motorised Transport Corridors (NMT) which have both cycleways and walkways to and from the CBD.  The Mohamed Badi-led body will also be charging a token fee on traders selling their merchandise at the terminal, or using advertisement space.  NMS Transport Director Michael Ochieng said the money will go into maintaining the Sh200 million bus terminus.      By Kamore Maina | 3 days ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 4 days ago By Mate Tongola and Mireri Junior | 4 days ago By Betty Njeru | 5 days ago Grab a copy of today's Standard & Nairobian Epaper for only 10/-