From left, NCIC Chairman Dr Samuel Kobia, Deputy CJ Philomena Mwilu, Interior CS Dr Fred Matiangi and EACC Chairman Eliud Wabukala during the launch of the Commission's strategic plan, June 30, 2021.  [Samson Wire. Standard]  The government has set up the required measures to curb violence in the run-up to and after the 2022 General Elections, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has assured Kenyans.  “This time, the security sector is more prepared than it was in 2013 and 2017,” he said.  The CS made the remarks on Wednesday during the launch of the 2020-2025 Strategic Plan for National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) in Nairobi.   Ruto tells clerics to take lead role in 2022 politics  When we ignored telling warning of the devil and paid with rivers of blood   Iria party in drive to register new members  IEBC: It’s impossible to have new constituencies before 2022 election “We have sufficient laws and solid institutions, ready to work collaboratively with other organizations to ensure that we go through this period peacefully,” the CS added.   The launch of NCIC strategic plan coincides with plans by other government institutions ahead of the General Elections and how to tame election-related challenges.  Two weeks ago, a top security meeting held in Nairobi brought together regional and county commissioners from all counties where the administrators were told to start preparing for next year’s elections in advance.  During the launch, NCIC was challenged to tighten their cases on hatemongers and violence inciters before forwarding them to courts in a statement shared by Deputy Chief Justice, Philomena Mwilu who spoke on behalf of CJ Martha Koome.  “As you undertake your activities under the Strategic Plan, we must deepen the engagement between the Commission and the Judiciary and work in the public interest, with all stakeholders to develop systems and mechanisms that facilitate greater efficiencies and better outcomes for the people of Kenya whom we serve,” she stated.  She noted that with the launch happening just months before the elections, it was important for the commission to immediately embark on implementing the activities outlined in the Strategic Plan.  On his part, NCIC Chairman Samuel Kobia told his team that they should forge stronger collaborations with colleagues in enforcement agency to support the country go through elections with challenges.  “In this strategic plan we have indicated kind of networking that we have with other commissions and development partners including working together with the Judiciary,” he continued.  Kobia said that the commission is looking forward to getting support from the judiciary to enable them deal with hate mongers citing that they will henceforth tighten their cases.  “We have many pending cases in court but we understand it’s because of backlog of other cases,” stated the NCIC chairman.     IEBC launches 2020-2024 Strategic Plan ahead of the 2022 general elections  War pitting the Executive and the Judiciary has escalated after the 2017 general elections  Vyongozi wa chama cha KANU wadokeza kuwa huenda KANU ikawania urais katika uchaguzi ujao By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago By Kamore Maina | 5 hours ago By The Standard | 8 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 10 hours ago