Nairobi Area Traffic Commander Joshua Omukata. [David Njaaga, Standard]  Motorists will be forced to endure heavy traffic on major roads for six hours tomorrow to allow a smooth ceremonial flag-off of the World Rally Championship in Nairobi before heading to Naivasha.  Some of the roads that will be affected include Thika Road and Uhuru Highway. Motorists have been urged to use alternative routes between 8am to 12pm.  Nairobi Traffic boss Joshua Omukata said during the time, motorists and spectators will be required to be vigilant not only to allow space for rally cars but also to avoid any incidents.  “The vehicles will leave Safari Park Hotel for Kasarani Stadium around 6 am and proceed to KICC via Thika road for a ceremonial flag off at 8 am. During that period, there will be traffic disruption on some major roads and we urge motorists to bear with us,” Omukata said.  It’s finally time for Safari Rally  How Safari Rally flag-off will affect traffic in Nairobi  Thika Road horror: Wife recounts last moments with motorist killed in bullet spray  World champion Sebastien Ogier lays down marker at Safari Rally Kenya He added: “Around 12:45 pm, the first vehicle will be flagged off headed to Ngomongo where spectators will be waiting for the actual event. This is an international affair and will attract many people that is why we will be on the lookout.”  The traffic boss said officers and marshals from different departments will be placed on the roads to ensure free flow of traffic and safety for everyone and those who must use the mentioned roads.  After Ngomongo, the rally cars will again use Thika road but exit around Muthaiga then join Wangari Maathai Road in the afternoon hours towards Naivasha.  The World Rally Championship will return on June 24-27 after a 19 -year absence.  The event was set to return to Kenya last year but postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic.   Carl Tundo kuwakilisha Kenya katika mashindano ya dunia ya WRC  WRC Countdown: Drivers ready for WRC Safari Rally set for 24th to 27th June  Rais Uhuru Kenyatta adai kuwa Kenya ipo tayari kwa mashindano ya WRC By Ng'enoh Kipkemoi  | 37 minutes ago By Ndungu Gachane | 37 minutes ago By Betty Njeru | 13 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 1 day ago