Fire fighters putting out the fire on the train plying the Nanyuki-Nairobi route. [File, Standard]  A cargo train ferrying empty petrol tanks from Nanyuki to Nairobi broke down on Sunday, June 6, morning after its engine cabin caught fire.  There were no casualties reported as the situation was contained by fire fighters from Murang’a county who were swift in containing the early morning incident.  In response, Kenya Railways Corporation said that the fire that broke out abruptly had been caused by a slight electric fault in the locomotive engine.  “Our engineers arrived at the area promptly and rectified the problem and service is expected to resume once a full inspection is completed,” Kenya Railways management said in a tweet on Sunday afternoon.  Sh32b Nairobi Railway City classified as key national project  On railway transport, Kenya is certainly on the right track  It’s a brand new, second-hand train, but fret not as long as we keep going  Inside Sh32b plan to revamp railway system This is the second time a train plying the Nairobi-Nanyuki route has experienced malfunctions since it was revived last year.  Fire fighters and residents check the source of the fire after putting it out. [File, Standard]  In December 2020, one of two passenger trains from Nanyuki to Nairobi temporarily stalled on at Ruthagati with more than 1,500 passengers on board.   “The crew noticed a mechanical issue with the train that is why they stopped to address it. However, they resumed their journey without more hitches," he said.  The Nanyuki-Thika trains stop at Inter-terminus in Murang’a, Makuyu, Maragua, Sagana, Karatina, Kiganjo, Chaka, Naromoru and Nanyuki stations and charge low fares of between Sh50 and Sh100.  Many locals have opted for railway services which have been revived by President Uhuru’s regime, leading to Kenya Railways increasing the number of trains commuting the Nairobi - Nanyuki route.   THE GRAND REPORT: Trip down memory lane on the relationship between President Uhuru and Raila Odinga  Impeaching Matiang'i: Guns trained at CS Fred Matiang'i with leaders divided over impeachment plans  Murathe: People have sometimes tended to take Uhuru for granted because he is a nice guy By Gerald Mutethia | 22 hours ago By Gerald Mutethia | 22 hours ago By Jane Mugambi | 22 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 22 hours ago