A collage of President Uhuru Kenyatta in Kisumu county for the Madaraka Day rally on June 1, 2021. [PSCU]  Politics took centre stage at the Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium in Kisumu when the order of addresses was breached.  Ordinarily, the Deputy President is expected to invite the President to address the nation after which nobody else speaks.  After his short speech, DP William Ruto invited President Uhuru Kenyatta to address the nation. But when it was his turn to address the Madaraka Day rally, Uhuru invited ODM leader Raila Odinga to speak.  Uhuru's administration, Ruto had earlier said, heralds the next phase of job opportunities, value, and wealth creation to eradicate poverty.  How different was this Madaraka Day celebration from last year  PLO Lumumba, Muluka and Ndolo celebrate Madaraka Day exercising at Camp Toyoyo  Uhuru, Ruto differ on Judiciary   Why Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium has no walls Ruto said that as the country marks the 58th Madaraka Day, it is imperative to remember that forefathers worked hard so that "we can have a democratic nation anchored not on personalities, but constitutionalism".  He said the politics of tribe should be replaced with a performing executive and robust legislation.  "...celebrate the firm foundation of [the] rule of law and not of men," Ruto said.  He added that it would be a betrayal if the electorate and politicians alike "allowed ethnic bigotry and personality cults to destroy the rule of law".  Ruto had praised the President for launching the development projects during his three-day visit to the Nyanza region.  Uhuru had been accompanied by Raila in the tour, while Ruto was nowhere to be seen.  But Ruto seemed to downplay it, saying the developments are a testimony that there is a government that works and delivers.  The developments come a day after a section of the DP’s foot soldiers criticised Uhuru's working tour in Nyanza for sidelining Ruto in his programme.  They claimed the visit was pegged on political interests and not genuine development concerns.  In the last two days, President Uhuru has traversed parts of Siaya and Kisumu as he unveiled a number of projects.  He was accompanied by Raila who also played a pivotal role in the preparations for the Madaraka Day fete.  The projects included those that were birthed through the Handshake between the two leaders.  Ruto said, "A government that delivers is good for everybody, irrespective of who they voted for."  The DP further stated that such development brings a country's citizens together.   Venue of Madaraka Day celebrations could be changed following fears of possible spike in Covid cases  Leaders from Nyanza region hold meeting with President Kenyatta ahead of Madaraka day celebrations  Impeaching Matiang'i: Guns trained at CS Fred Matiang'i with leaders divided over impeachment plans By Judah Ben-Hur | 1 hour ago By Betty Njeru | 4 hours ago By Steve Mkawale | 1 day ago By Ndungu Gachane | 1 day ago ‘Achana naye aende’: Why Uhuru stopped Madaraka Day speech to make these remarks