Education Cabinet Secretary Prof George Magoha speaking during the release of 2021 form one selection and placement results.[Wilberforce Okwiri,Standard]  Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha has fulfilled his promise to ensure a KCPE candidate who failed to sit an English Composition paper after he was sent home over Sh400 meals fees arrears joins a top school in Kitui.  Tutus Musili, a former pupil at Kaunguni Primary School in Mwingi Central, is said to have been sent away by the deputy headteacher over an outstanding Sh400 for the school feeding programme. The candidate had just sat Mathematics and English language tests that morning.  Musili did not make it back to school in time to tackle to English Composition paper.    Mistakes lock most students out of dream schools, says Magoha  36,254 candidates to join National schools  Magoha seeks to make PE education compulsory  Sh9.3 billion released to schools, says CS Magoha And when Magoha learnt about the boy’s plight through the media, he promised to have him admitted to Kisasi Boys Secondary School. The school had a mean score of 7.474 in 2020 Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examinations.  The CS also promised that the candidate would be graded without the test he missed.  On Tuesday, Musili's grandmother Naomi Mutisya was elated after learning her grandson would join one of the best performing schools in the county.  “What more can I ask for? We have confirmed that he has been called to join Kisasi Boys. This is a miracle. I was not sure he would join secondary school but all that is now settled,” said the granny.  By the time the news was reaching the family, Musili was not home. Ms Mutisya said she had sent him on an errand and was waiting for him to return so she can give him the good news.  At the same time, Magoha said the boy would get a full scholarship for his secondary education.  The CS called on the Teachers Service Commission to take disciplinary action against the school’s deputy headteacher for kicking the boy out of the examination room over the money. Magoha vowed to ensure justice was served for the orphan.  “We shall ensure justice is done for that child. He shall be graded without that Composition paper he missed because it was not his fault,” Magoha said in Kisumu in March.  The school’s headteacher Paul Mulonzya termed his deputy’s action as a regrettable error.  pmuasya@standardmedia.co.ke   Newly appointed KNEC board holds its first meeting  Prof George Magoha achaguliwa kuwa mwenyekiti wa bodi ya baraza la mtihani  Teachers Unions claim that appraisals are in bad faith against teachers  By Shadrack Mitty | 18 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 1 day ago By Augustine Oduor | 2 days ago By Jacinta Mutura | 2 days ago