Mama Dorcas Ntimama.  President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga are among key leaders that have condoled with the family of the late Cabinet Minister William Ole Ntimama.  This follows the death of Mama Dorcas Pedelai Ntimama who was the wife to the late minister.  Mama Dorcas is said to have passed on Friday night at a Nairobi hospital where she was undergoing treatment.  In his message of comfort and encouragement, President Kenyatta described the late Mama Dorcas Ntimama as a gracious woman who worked tirelessly for the wellbeing of the society.  Is Uhuru’s war on drugs in Coast bearing fruit?  Quit government now, DP told as allies dig in  Woman’s pain of Sh2 million win and a rapist still at large  William Ruto: This is why I differ with President Uhuru Kenyatta The President said Mama Dorcas always built strong bonds of friendship, which ensured harmony and peace in her community.  "It is heartbreaking that we've lost Mama Dorcas. As a nation, we are grateful for her many years of service to Kenya especially in Narok where, with her late husband the Hon Ole Ntimama, they offered leadership and service to the community for many years,” Uhuru said.  “For those of us who interacted with Mama Dorcas, we shall miss her maternal demeanor and welcoming smile that made everyone around her comfortable,” he added.  While praying to God to grant the family fortitude and grace to bear the loss of their matriarch, Uhuru said losing a parent is never easy.  “May you find solace in the lovely memories you shared with your dear mother and may she rest in eternal peace,” he said.  His sentiments were echoed by Raila who said Mama Dorcas was the bedrock of her husband’s politics and a matriarch to the Maa community.  “I have learnt with pain the passing of Mama Dorcas Ntimama, widow to late Ole Ntimama. She was bedrock of her husband’s politics, matriarch to the Maa. Dorcas championed Maa culture and promoted education of girls. I experienced your generosity, friendship and kindness. RIP Mama,” Raila said.   Governor Charity Ngilu urges Kalonzo and Raila to mend fences and work together ahead of 2022 polls  HOUSE OF CARDS: Is the State secretly engineering plot to have a compromise candidate succeed Uhuru?  Raila Amfokea Kalonzo: Amesema kuwa yeye hata hajatangaza nia ya kugombea urais 2022 By Brian Okoth | 52 minutes ago By Patrick Beja and Philip Mwakio | 6 hours ago By Patrick Muinde | 6 hours ago By Augustine Oduor | 7 hours ago