Kenya has lifted the ban on flights from the United Kingdom (UK) effective immediately, but with conditions.  In a letter dated June 9, 2021, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wrote to the British High Commission in Nairobi, notifying its decision to lift all passenger flight restrictions between the two countries.  However, all passengers and crew arriving in Kenya from whichever part of the UK must be in possession of a valid Covid-19 negative PCR certificate.  “The test certificate must be conducted within 96 hours before travel except for children below five years,” the Ministry said.  It added: “All passengers, crew coming to Kenya from the UK shall be required to self-isolate for seven days upon arrival and take a subsequent PCR test four days after arrival.”  Yatani's budget has tried to address concerns of Kenyans, half-heartedly  Intrigues of the Sh608b debt CS Yatani omitted from budget speech  University students protest Yatani proposal to reduce tuition funding  Senate summons Yatani over delayed disbursement of funds to counties Travelers are also required to submit their health information on the jitenge application for two consecutive weeks (14 days).  The UK issued a travel advisory for visitors originating from Kenya in April this year.  London added Kenya, the Philippines, Pakistan, and Bangladesh to its ‘red list over concerns of new Covid-19 variants.  Visitors from the four countries were denied entry into the UK from April 9.  In a tit-for-tat, Kenya retaliated a day later and issued a travel advisory for visitors coming into the country from the United Kingdom, also coupled with a set of conditions.  Foreign Affairs Ministry in a strongly-worded statement, termed the decision ‘discriminatory’.  Days later, the office of Foreign Affairs CS Raychelle Omamo gave word that she had met with UK’s Dominic Raab, to deliberate on solutions to end the stalemate.   Pesa Zitatoka Wapi? Waziri Yatani atangaza mikakati ya kukusanya kodi ili kufadhili bajeti  Treasury CS Ukur Yatani presents the National Budget for the Financial year 2021/2022  What will it take for Dr. Mukhisa Kituyi to become the 5th president of the Republic of Kenya? By Patrick Muinde | 2 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich and Judah Ben-Hur | 2 hours ago By Peter Theuri | 2 hours ago By Wainaina Ndung’u | 2 hours ago