Agriculture CS Peter Munya in Mbeere South, June 11, 2021. [Muriithi Mugo, Standard]  Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya has dismissed the coronation of Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi as the Mt Kenya spokesperson.  Speaking in Mbeere South when he launched Sh48 million revolving funds from the national government, Munya said President Uhuru Kenyatta was the Mt Kenya spokesperson until the end of his tenure in 2022.  "The last meeting at Sagana State Lodge resolved that President Kenyatta was the bonafide spokesperson and any change would require another meeting at the same venue," said Munya.  The CS dismissed claims that he endorsed Muturi during his coronation by the Nchuri Ncheke as the Mt Kenya East kingpin.  Mt Kenya East governors back Muturi bid for unity  Muturi: Impeachment motion a creation of media  Justin Muturi’s coronation sparks power struggles in Mount Kenya region  Speaker Justin Muturi says only a few 'political novices' oppose his coronation "I indeed attended the meeting but I never endorsed the coronation. I told the elders that Uhuru was still in power and therefore the idea of having another leader from the region was misplaced," he said.  Munya accused the media of misrepresenting facts.  He further dismissed the meetings held by Mt Kenya East governors Kiraitu Murungi (Meru), Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi), Martin Wambora (Embu) and former Embu Senator Lenny Kivuti in support for Muturi.  National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi was coronated at Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine in Kiharu, Murang'a County. [Kibata Kihu, Standard]  He termed them as "a cartel that was misguided in matters of politics."  The CS also took a swipe on leaders he said were tarnishing the track record by Uhuru.  Munya said President Kenyatta had delivered on his mandate.  "I have seen people move around and open projects they purport to have initiated when in the real sense the projects received budgetary allocations by Kenyatta through the National Treasury," said Munya in a veiled attack on Deputy President William Ruto,   Munya also defended the move by the President to reject the appointment of some judges.  National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi with Agriculture CS Peter Munya at Njuri Ncheke shrine in Meru. [Phares Mutembei, Standard]  He said the Head of State had a right to pinpoint areas he found not in tandem with the aspirations of the people.  “His work is not to rubber-stamp even when there are glaring errors,” he said.  Munya faulted retired chief justices Willy Mutunga and David Maraga for trying to interfere with the Judiciary despite retiring.  “It looks like they have a new career to insult the president,” the CS said.       Speaker Justin Muturi defends the Kikuyu council of elders that installed him as Mt. Kenya spokesman  Spika Justin Muturi amejitokeza waziwazi kutetea wazee wa Njuri Ncheke dhidi ya shutuma dhidi yao  Speaker Justin Muturi's new role elicits mixed reaction from leaders & people from Mt. Kenya region By Mireri Junior | 1 hour ago By Patrick Vidija | 4 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura | 5 hours ago By Patrick Muinde | 14 hours ago Grab a copy of today's Standard & Nairobian Epaper for only 10/-