The Rent Restriction Tribunal has announced the resumption of physical registry services and open court proceedings from next week.  In a brief yesterday, the Tribunal Chair Hillary Korir gave a detailed plan of how the reopening would take place in lieu of Covid-19 protocols.  Koris said physical registry services have been reinstated at the Nairobi and Nakuru Rent Tribunals.   “Court proceedings will take place from Monday-Thursday in two sessions. One from 9.00 am-10.45 am,” he added.  Women falling behind in India’s COVID-19 vaccination drive  How fintech in Africa is surging in the Covid-19 pandemic  Economy grows by Sh790b amid Covid onslaught  Workers grapple with ravages of coronavirus Court will then go on a 30-minute recess to allow for sanitization of the courtroom and resume for a second session from 11.15 am-1.00 pm.  According to Korir, the courtrooms will only accommodate 16 people per session.  The Chair also said parties have been invited to fix dates at the registry for pending matters that were scheduled for hearing between March 28 to June 10 and did not proceed.  In March, Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu announced the closure of courts, tribunals, and registries in Nairobi, Machakos, Kajiado, Kiambu and Nakuru counties to the public, following President Uhuru’s directive to lock down the five counties, termed as the one-zoned area.  The DCJ said any matters requiring a hearing would be conducted virtually.  "Like all other sectors, the Judiciary and the rest of the criminal and civil justice agencies were asked to take immediate action to eliminate nonessential physical contact that may lead to crowding or the propagation of the disease," she said in a statement.  The closure came at a time Kenya was facing a third wave of the coronavirus, and rising infections in the five counties.    Some courts across the country continue to remain closed to physical proceedings, and only urgent matters being heard in person.      Tracking Covid-19: Kenya records 324 new cases, 10 deaths in last 24 hours  Covid Downward Trend: Kenya records 86 new Covid-19 cases with positivity rate now at 3.1%  HEALTH WATCH: Scientists working on developing vaccine that comes in form of a pill & nasal spray By Betty Njeru | 1 hour ago By Caroline Chebet | 12 hours ago By Judah-Ben Huh and Jacob Ng'etich | 12 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 12 hours ago The oldest bakery in Kenya now under family's 4th generation