Leaders yesterday continued to mourn mama Dorcas Pedelai Ntimama, 84, the wife of the late former Heritage Minister William ole Ntimama.  The matriarch died on Friday night at Agha Khan Hospital in Nairobi where she was receiving treatment.  The clergy, led by Anglican Church of Kenya (ACK) Archbishop Jackson ole Sapit, praised Mama Dorcas for her role in church missions as a member of Presbyterian Church of East Africa.  “She was humble, a woman of few words and was a silent pillar to the family. She was the only one who could cool down the fierce Maa kingpin, ole Ntimama,” said Sapit.  He recalled her love for Maasai hymn songs, noting she never left behind her hymn book.  PCEA installs new secretary general  How William ole Ntimama shared out Sh2b wealth of land, cash and houses  FGM stems from human cannibalism, pastor tells court  Ntimama daughter quits Jubilee, joins Chama Cha Mashinani “Few months ago when we visited her, despite losing memories of a few things due to age, she never forgot her worship songs. She could sing line by line. She truly loved God,” Sapit said at a press conference in Narok town.  Narok Pastors Fellowship Chairman, Bishop Dr Peter Nakola, who accompanied Sapit, said Mama Dorcas was able to unite her family after the death of her husband in 2016.  “I and Archbishop ole Sapit were in the committee to oversee the execution of the will of the late Ntimama and Mama Dorcas worked harmoniously with us,” said Nakola.  Narok Governor Samuel Tunai expressed great sorrow over the death of the matriarch, describing her as strong pillar to the Ntimama family.  “On behalf of all the residents of Narok County, I convey our sympathies to the family, friends and neighbours of Mama Dorcas for the loss that we all share,” Tunai said in a statement.  He said Mama Dorcas would be “fondly remembered for the profound community development initiatives she drove.”  “Hers was a life respectably and admirably lived,” added Tunai.        Isiolo Killings: 5 people killed and scores injured in a night attack in Madowale village, Isiolo  Secondary school student attacks and seriously injures principal in Kericho over school fees row  Burden of Judiciary: Organ facing huge backlog of cases and straining budgets By Antony Gitonga | 3 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 4 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 4 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony  | 1 day ago