Travellers at Heathrow Airport London Britain on February 13, 2021.[Reuters]  Britain’s airlines and holiday companies are planning a “day of action” on Wednesday to ramp up pressure on the government to ease travel restrictions, with just weeks to go before the start of the peak summer season.  Travel companies, whose finances have been stretched to breaking point during the pandemic, are desperate to avoid another summer lost to Covid-19. But with Britain's strict quarantine requirements still in place that now looks likely.    As the clock ticks down to July, Europe’s biggest airline Ryanair and Manchester Airports Group on Thursday launched legal action to try to get the government to ease the rules before the industry’s most profitable season starts.  UEFA probes discrimination at Budapest games, halts rainbow armband review  Qatar says only vaccinated fans allowed at World Cup 2022  Tough measures as Covid-19 cases rise in lakeside counties  Pandemic turned newsrooms into mental asylums On Wednesday, June 23, pilots, cabin crew and travel agents will gather in Westminster, central London, and at airports across Britain to try to drum up support.  Britain's aviation industry has been harder hit by the pandemic than its European peers, according to data published by pilots trade union BALPA on Sunday.  That showed daily arrivals and departures into the United Kingdom were down 73% on an average day earlier this month compared to before the pandemic, the biggest drop in Europe. Spain, Greece and France were down less than 60%.  UK airports were also badly affected, with traffic in and out of London's second busiest airport Gatwick down 92%, according to the data.  Time is running out for the industry, said the union.  "There is no time to hide behind task forces and reviews," said BALPA general secretary Brian Strutton.  "BALPA is demanding that the UK Government gets its act together and opens the U.S. routes and European holiday travel destinations that it has blocked with no published evidence at all."  Over 45,000 jobs have already been lost in UK aviation, with estimates suggesting that 860,000 aviation, travel and tourism jobs are being sustained only by government furlough schemes.      Tracking Covid-19: Kenya records 324 new cases, 10 deaths in last 24 hours  Covid Downward Trend: Kenya records 86 new Covid-19 cases with positivity rate now at 3.1%  HEALTH WATCH: Scientists working on developing vaccine that comes in form of a pill & nasal spray By Reuters | 1 hour ago By Amos Kareithi | 1 hour ago By Reuters | 1 day ago By Reuters | 1 day ago