Uhuru Primary School in Ol’Jorok Sub-County, Nyandarua County has been closed after 20 pupils tested positive for Covid-19.  Eight of the cases were discovered on Tuesday, June 15 while the remaining 12 were confirmed on Wednesday, June 16.  County health minister Dr. John Mungai told The Standard the 20 infections were discovered in 72 samples.  Dr. Mungai said the pupils, who are in different grades, had been placed under home-based isolation, and were all in stable conditions.  “We are currently meeting some parents who visited the school after receiving the news. Everything is under control. They should not panic,” he said.  Wimbledon cuts 2021 prize purse by 5%  Online presence can boost small businesses' fortunes  Giant Buddhist goddess in Japan gets face mask to pray for end of Covid-19  J&J to send 2 million COVID-19 vaccine doses to S.Africa by end-June - Ramaphosa “The Ministry of Education [has] resolved to close the school for some days,” said the CEC.  Dr. Mungai said last Friday 50 pupils of the school experienced diarrhoea and were vomiting. The learners were treated at the Nyairoko Dispensary and discharged.  On Monday, another group of 20 were treated at the facility with similar symptoms.  The second group, however, had fever with their temperatures reading as high as 39 Degrees Celsius.  Their samples, plus two others, were collected and tested for Covid-19. Twenty of the samples returned a positive result.  The pupils, who were placed under home-based isolation, are being monitored by health workers from the Nyandarua County Government, said Dr Mungai.  The CEC said, according to preliminary plans, pupils in Classes Five to Eight will report back to school on Monday, June 21, while those in Grade One to Three will be at home for ten days.  Grade Four pupils were not in school as their resumption of studies was scheduled for July by the Ministry of Education.   Tracking Covid-19: Kenya records 324 new cases, 10 deaths in last 24 hours  Covid Downward Trend: Kenya records 86 new Covid-19 cases with positivity rate now at 3.1%  HEALTH WATCH: Scientists working on developing vaccine that comes in form of a pill & nasal spray By Gitau Wanyoike | 23 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi | 1 day ago By Ndungu Gachane | 3 days ago By James Munyeki | 5 days ago