President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday described the late Kalembe Ndile, former MP for Kibwezi, as a selfless leader who fearlessly fought for the poor and the marginalised.  In an eulogy read on his behalf by Water Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki during the requiem mass held yesterday at the Holy Family Basilica in Nairobi, Uhuru said Kalembe will be remembered for having the interests of Kenyans at heart.  “It is unfortunate that death has taken from us Kalembe at his prime. He was a lively politician who held the interests of the country at heart. Kalembe never shied away from identifying with the underprivileged,” said the Head of State.    Uhuru said Kalembe’s excellence in the political arena was propelled by his devotion to servant leadership. “Kalembe initiated numerous development projects which help the people of Makueni to date,” he said.  How about replicating ‘thriving pettiness cottage industry’ to save struggling public entities?  Trucker claiming to be Kalembe Ndile’s son vows to attend burial  Uhuru, Kalonzo hail Kalembe’s selfless quest to defend the poor  High Court hits Uhuru again, revokes 2020 Executive Order The president’s sentiments were echoed by Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, who termed Kalembe a true fighter.  “Kalembe is a celebrated hero when it comes to protecting the rights of the oppressed. He wasn’t afraid of confronting situations. He was an example of who a servant leader is,” said Kalonzo.  Kibwezi West MP Patrick Musimba, the chair of the funeral committee, said the procession to the burial venue will leave Lee Funeral Home today at 5am. The former MP will be buried at his home in Mbui Nzau, Kibwezi West constituency.   Misa ya wafu kwa aliyekuwa mbunge wa Kibwezi Kalembe Ndile ilifanyika hii leo  Impeaching Matiang'i: Guns trained at CS Fred Matiang'i with leaders divided over impeachment plans  President Suluhu will on Tuesday begin a two-day State visit on the invitation of President Kenyatta By Paul Ogemba | 1 hour ago By Emmanuel Too | 7 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 2 days ago By Eric Abuga | 2 days ago