Former Kibwezi Mp Kalembe Ndile. [John Muia, Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday described the late Kalembe Ndile, former MP for Kibwezi, as a selfless leader who fearlessly fought for the plight of the poor and marginalised in the society.  In a condolence speech read on his behalf by Water Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki during the requiem mass held on Thursday at the Holy Family Basilica in Nairobi, Uhuru said Kalembe will be remembered for putting the interests of Kenyans at heart.  “It is unfortunate that death has taken from us Kalembe at his prime. He was a lively politician who held the interests of the country at heart. Kalembe never shied away from identifying with the underprivileged in the society,” said the Head of State.  Uhuru said Kalembe’s excellence in the political arena was propelled by his devotion to servant leadership.  President, four others fault High Court decision that scuttled BBI  Uhuru, Kalonzo hail Kalembe as selfless pro-poor politician  How about replicating ‘thriving pettiness cottage industry’ to save struggling public entities?  Trucker claiming to be Kalembe Ndile’s son vows to attend burial “Kalembe initiated numerous development projects which help the people of Makueni to this day, and nothing of all his achievements made him proud,” he said.  The president’s sentiments were echoed by Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, who in his tribute termed Kalembe as a true fighter.  “Kalembe is a celebrated hero when it comes to protecting the rights of the oppressed. He wasn’t afraid of confronting situations. He lived a common man’s life and was an example of who a servant leader is,” said Kalonzo.  Kibwezi West MP Patrick Musimba, who chaired the central funeral planning committee for the late politician, said the procession to the burial venue will leave Lee Funeral Home today at 5am.  The former MP will be buried at his home in Mbui Nzau, Kibwezi West constituency.      Rais Uhuru Kenyatta awasilisha tetesi zake katika kesi ya rufaa dhidi ya uamuzi uliositisha BBI  War pitting the Executive and the Judiciary has escalated after the 2017 general elections  Misa ya wafu kwa aliyekuwa mbunge wa Kibwezi Kalembe Ndile ilifanyika hii leo By Macharia Kamau | 1 hour ago By Wainaina Wambu | 1 hour ago By Mercy Adhiambo | 1 hour ago By Wainaina Wambu | 1 hour ago