Some of the recovered mobile phones from the operation. [DCI]  Detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) have arrested six suspects linked to a series of robberies along Nairobi’s Southern By-Pass.  DCI, in a report, said the six were arrested in Kawangware, Nairobi by a multi-agency team of detectives from the Cyber and Forensic Analysis and Crime Research and Intelligence Bureau.  Police have recovered over one hundred assorted mobile phones, “all suspected to be stolen.”  “During the operation mounted by Lang’ata based crime busters, they managed to arrest Messi Martha Mutioka, Tevin Njuguna, Edward Baraza Shikoba, Lawrence Gitahi Ndirangu, Kenneth Maina Chege and David Lugali Asianja all aged between 21-32 years,” DCI tweeted on Wednesday.  Gang fires several bullets into motorist’s car on Thika Road  Man, 42, arrested over defilement, killing of 10-year-old pupil  Court frees online fraud suspect  Hafsa Mohamed: Missing woman rescued by police in Kayole Police also said that one person who had fallen victim to the theft managed to identify her phone.  Authorities added that they have so far arrested 15 suspects in total, all linked to the robberies.  Persons who have lost their phones have been urged to visit the Lang’ata Police Station to identify their items.  One of six suspects arrested in the operation. [DCI]  This latest development comes in the backdrop of rising crime and insecurity in Nairobi and especially in the Central Business District (CBD).  Just this week, a team of conmen and conwomen were accosted by angry residents around Kenya National Archives in Nairobi, following rampant complaints that they were terrorising and mugging city residents and by-passers.  On Monday, DCI urged victims of theft and mugging to report their ordeals to the police instead of taking to social media.  "While it is good sensitisation, we further urge them to formalise those complaints as guided to facilitate the prosecution process once arrests are effected,” the authority said.  Just yesterday, a motorist died while receiving treatment in hospital. He was accosted by a three-man gang who sprayed his vehicle with bullets in Juja, Kiambu County.  The lone occupant of a private Subaru Forester was diverting to Kenyatta Road, off the Thika Superhighway at 4 pm, when the gang opened fire.   Police in Kisumu arrests one suspect in ongoing security operation  Drama as Police hault planned robbery on Barclays Bank  Fear grips residents of Khwisero, Kakamega following a spate of bizarre killings By Josphat Thiong’o | 12 hours ago By Kamore Maina | 15 hours ago By Kamore Maina | 18 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 19 hours ago