Court of appeal President David Musinga takes an oath of the office at the Supreme Court Grounds on Friday, June 11,2021. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  The President of the Court of Appeal has named seven judges to hear the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) Appeal cases.  This is after a five-judge bench of the High Court ruled against the BBI process terming it as ‘unconstitutional, null and void’ on Thursday, May 13.  The judges' decision was, however, appealed by interested parties.  The seven-judge bench will comprise of Court of Appeal President Daniel Musinga and Justices Roselyn Nambuye, Hannah Okwengu, Partick Kiage, Gatembu Kairu, Fatuma Sichale and Francis Tuiyott.  Musalia Mudavadi criticises ‘No BBI, No Election’ rhetoric  Court of Appeal sittings resume in Kisumu, Mombasa  Petitioner seeks to file more BBI evidence  Referendum not factored in money allocated to IEBC, agency boss says The bench will hear the cases for four days starting June 29 to July 2nd.    President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga picked six lawyers to appeal the High Court judgement that annulled the BBI process.  The duo formed a legal team, led by Attorney General Paul Kihara, that they hope will dismantle the ruling by the High Court judges and allow the BBI reggae to stay on.   In the team to revive the BBI are Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto, former BBI joint secretary Paul Mwangi, members of the BBI committee of experts Prof Ben Sihanya, Prof Kibe Mungai and city lawyer Jackson Awele.  “Unless this application for stay of execution of the order is heard urgently, there is a real risk,” the AG’s application read.  BBI secretariat co-chairs Junet Mohamed and Dennis Waweru had vowed to appeal the case, accusing the judges of deliberately acting to plunge the country into a constitutional crisis and chaos through judicial activism.  “As law-abiding leaders, we respect the decision of the court. But we don’t agree with it. Consequently, we are setting up a legal team to look into and appeal the ruling,” Junet said.   BBI Case set to go to Court of Appeal with spotlight on the Judicial bench  Boresha Katiba Referendum draft bill handed to constitution implementation committee  New twist in Okoa Kenya as IEBC said it did not verify authenticity of signatures By Ochieng Oyugi and Antony Gitonga | 21 minutes ago By Too Jared | 1 hour ago By James Wanzala | 6 hours ago By Too Jared | 8 hours ago