The main dais of the newly refurbished Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega. [File, Standard]  Kakamega County Government has dismissed claims by ODM’s Director of Communications Philip Etale that Bukhungu Stadium and Kamamega County Referral Hospitals were funded by the national government.  In the statement seen by The Standard on Monday, Governor Wycliffe Oparanya's communication team said the county government solely funded the two projects.  “Funds being used for the construction of the two flagship projects among others are allocations to counties from the fair share revenue,” Peter Atsiaya said.    Over 1,000 political parties seek registration since 2017  Don't intimidate my supporters, Obado tells critics in Nyanza  Politicians send Raila message through his son  Raila in meeting with presidential hopeful Kituyi, skips Prayer Breakfast Atsiaya blamed the delayed completion of the two projects on the national government’s failure to disburse funds in time to the county.  “That completion of the said projects has delayed because of unstable release of sharable funds by the National Treasury to devolved units.”  Atsiaya said there was nothing wrong with President Uhuru Kenyatta launching projects in Nyanza counties, but added that the Western region equally needed projects.  He said political leaders from the region have identified projects which they want the national government to fund and have approached President Kenyatta on the same.  “In the handshake's spirit, local leaders have identified Kakamega, Busia and Kitale airstrips, gold refinery factory in Kakamega, granite factory in Vihiga, roads and water projects among others that require either revival or construction,” he added.  In an earlier statement, Etale said before presiding over Mashujaa Day celebrations in 2019 which were held in Kakamega County at Bukhungu Stadium, the national government released funds for the construction of the stadium among other projects.  Etale was responding to claims by Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and Lugari MP Ayub Savula that ODM leader Raila Odinga had abandoned the western region and was only taking President Kenyatta to Nyanza.  They said despite the voters from the region backing Raila’s presidency over the years, the Orange party leader has turned his back on them.  Etale, however, said the Kisumu port and the rehabilitation of the railway line are national projects wand will benefit even western counties.  “The Nairobi-Nakuru-Kisumu-Luanda-Butere once completed will serve the people of Nyanza and western as it were before its collapse in the 1990s,” Etale said.   Jubilee, ODM and UDA to faceoff in Bonchari and Juja by-elections on Tuesday | HOUSE OF CARDS  ODM leader Raila Odinga has termed as unfortunate, the ruling on BBI by a five judge bench  ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna discusses party politics & the BBI bill | #NEWSHOUR By Peris Wambugu | 14 hours ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 23 hours ago By Eric Abuga and John Shilitsa | 23 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 23 hours ago