The officer is attached to a police station in Kuria East Sub-county, Migori County. [Courtesy]  Security officers in Homa Bay County are searching for a police officer who allegedly assaulted and pricked his wife’s genitals with nails.  The officer is accused of assaulting his 32-year-old wife at Kabuor Village, East Kamagak Location in Rachuonyo South Sub-county on Thursday night.  The officer is attached to a police station in Kuria East Sub-county, Migori County.  It is reported that the officer came home at night and began scrutinizing his wife's phone call log.  Court disbands Homa Bay Municipality Board  Amoth issues Covid-19 advisory as Nyanza bears brunt of illness  Vicious row in DP Ruto camp intensifies between parties  Internal UDA feuds ‘irrelevant’, Secretary-General says He is alleged to have been infuriated after finding suspicious calls from the deputy headteacher of a primary school in Rachuonyo South Sub-county.  Apparently, his analysis made him suspect that the said teacher was involved in an illicit love affair with his wife.  According to police reports, the officer demanded to know why there were many calls from the said teacher, to which his wife defended herself by saying they were discussing education matters concerning their children.  But the officer was not convinced by her explanation and he began assaulting her.  According to the woman’s father, Alfeus Ong’ou, the man pricked her genitals with nails during the assault.  “I am a worried father this afternoon because my daughter has been assaulted seriously. He has gone as far as pricking her genitals with nails. I am worried he may kill her,” said Ong’ou.  The woman reported the matter at Oyugis Police Station on Thursday night after the incident, where the area ward police commander directed her to Rachuonyo South Sub-county Hospital for medical examination.  Rachuonyo South Deputy County Commissioner David Kiprop said he is aware of the matter and that police are looking for the officer for legal action.   “We are following the matter keenly because what the man is alleged to have done is inhuman. That is someone who belongs to a police cell because his act is heinous,” Kiprop told The Standard.  He condemned the act saying the police officer will not be spared.  “Why would you prick someone’s genitals with nails even if she has gone against your marital rules?” Kiprop asked.  He told couples to take amiable measures when solving their marital issues.  “You can even send the lady back home so that you discuss the matter with her parents if you can’t handle it in your family. What happened is wrong,” Kiprop added.   UDA and People's Empowerment Party headed for collision with both eyeing vacant Kiambaa seat  David Murathe: I think the next step should be for us to kick Moses out of the party | #NEWSHOUR  The Purge Continues: Jubilee party now targets Kuria & Mbarire, party to revisit cases of 5 Senators By Isaiah Gwengi | 3 hours ago By Mactilda Seline Mbenywe | 5 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 19 hours ago By Caleb Kingwara | 1 day ago