The Homa Bay Referral Mortuary where Onyango was arrested.[James Omoro]  A 22-year-old man in Homa Bay county has been arrested after he was found licking blood of a dead body in a mortuary.  The man, identified as 'Onyango', is said to have licked the blood from woman believed to be an Early Childhood Development Education-ECDE teacher at a local school within Gul Kagembe area.  The said-teacher, police report indicate was shot dead with three bullets by unknown gangsters at her home in Rangwe on Tuesday night.  But on Thursday afternoon, Onyango who is said to be hailing from Ndhiwa, visited the mortuary where her body had been taken.  Manhunt for policeman who assaulted, pricked his wife's genitals with nails  Court disbands Homa Bay Municipality Board  Homa Bay ECDE teacher shot dead while washing utensils  Joy as air transport resumes in Homa Bay On arrival, he went to the mortuary where the attendants advised him to follow the right procedure which is required of someone who wants to view a body.  According to the attendants, Onyango was asked to mention the name of the person he was going to view his body to which he gave a male name.  After checking the registry, it was true that the name he gave had been recorded to which the attendants allowed him entry.  He entered the morgue alongside a boda boda rider whom he came along with and marched straight to where the said mentioned body was.  After a few minutes of viewing, they decided to leave.  The attendants said as they approached the exit door, Onyago spotted the body of the teacher and instead knelt beside and begun licking it.  “He started by tasting the blood with his right finger before he knelt and reached out by his tongue,” one of the attendants who witnessed the incident told police.  This action attracted attention of the mortuary attendants who called the hospital security officers to arrest him.   The hospital management called police who took him to Homa Bay Police Station.  Homa Bay Directorate of Criminal Investigations Officer Monica Berege said they are interrogating Onyango.  Ms Berege said Onyango’s actions needed thorough investigations on his connection with the teacher’s death.  “We want to get more information regarding why he was licking the teacher’s blood. This will help us know if there is any link between his actions and the teacher’s death,” Berege said.  Berege said preliminary investigation reveals Onyango might be a drug addict.   “He looks like a drug addict but we cannot assume anything. He is telling us that he comes from Ndhiwa but the place may not be his real home. We will have to visit his home to view the environment,” Berege said.  The 40-year-old teacher was killed by unknown people as she washed utensils in her home.  Police are yet to establish the cause of the murder and those behind it.   Dr. Amolo who was stabbed by his son passes on  Fear grips residents of Khwisero, Kakamega following a spate of bizarre killings  Drama in Thika town as father and daughter kick the mother out of their home By Isaiah Gwengi | 3 hours ago By Mactilda Seline Mbenywe | 5 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 19 hours ago By James Omoro | 1 day ago