The 25-year-old suspect has since been arrested. [File, Standard]  Police in Naivasha have arrested a 25-year-old man for fatally stabbing his wife.  The suspect allegedly committed the act at Maella Village in Naivasha, Nakuru County on Monday, May 31.  The vicenarian and his spouse had recently separated, and the woman went to put up at her aunt’s place; not far from her matrimonial home.  On Monday 9am, the suspect, who wanted a reunion, went to where his wife, Jane Wangari, was seeking refuge.  Body of a girl found dumped in a thicket in Kitengela  ‘My soul has left me’: family grieves after El Salvador mass grave discovered  Man kills wife, dies by suicide in Uasin Gishu  Feasting dogs expose missing man’s murder “The woman refused to reconcile with the suspect, leading to the fatal attack,” Naivasha Sub-County Police Commander Samuel Waweru told The Standard.  The area police boss said the suspect was armed with a kitchen knife, which he used in stabbing his partner 15 times in different parts of her body.  Wangari, who was in her aunt’s shamba, died at the scene, police said.  The suspect fled, but was arrested later Monday after residents informed police of his whereabouts. The murder weapon, however, wasn’t recovered.  “He will be arraigned on Wednesday, June 2,” Waweru said.  Detectives will seek to detain the suspect longer to allow for completion of investigations.  The deceased’s family told The Standard that Wangari and the suspect broke up one month ago after their marital row persisted.  Wangari’s body was taken to Naivasha Sub-County Referral Hospital morgue.  Relationship-related killings have been on the increase in Naivasha.  In early May, the body of a 32-year-old woman from Mai Mahiu was retrieved from a water tank. She had gone missing shortly after she and her boyfriend fell out.  In mid-April, a 32-year-old woman from Kayole in Naivasha was allegedly strangled by her 22-year-old boyfriend after the pair broke up.   Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death  The widow of Jacob Juma has accused police of dragging their feet in the hunt for Juma’s killers By Irissheel Shanzu | 1 hour ago By Fred Kibor | 1 day ago By Irissheel Shanzu | 1 day ago By Edward Kosut | 2 days ago ‘Achana naye aende’: Why Uhuru stopped Madaraka Day speech to make these remarks