Shantel Nzembi.  One suspect linked to the murder of an 8-year-old girl has been arrested in Kajiado county.  Shantel Nzembi was found dead and her body put in a gunny bag at Kitengela.  Isinya Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) officer Jeremiah Dubai said detectives arrested a middle-aged man who is a bodaboda operator at a bus stage following intelligence reports and testimonies from eyewitnesses.  He said detectives are now interested in pursuing the prime suspect, a woman who is also believed to be part of the gang that abducted Shantel, a Grade 2 pupil.  Body of a girl found dumped in a thicket in Kitengela  Whereabouts of slain Kitengela man Imbai’s Prado unknown  Terror suspects moved to city for further probe  What’s hot in The Nairobian from last week "We have made progress in this matter, following the arrest of one suspect whom we believe was involved in abducting this young girl. Our focus now is to arrest the woman who the leader of the gang operating in Kitengela," said Dubai.  The DCI officer said following the interrogation by the detectives, there are no doubts that the other suspect will be arrested soon.  "We do not want to reveal all the details in this matter, however, we are assuring the public that we will do our best to arrest the perpetrators," he said.  Shantel went missing on Sunday after leaving her home in Ashut, Kitengela.  Hours later, Shantel’s body was found by a boda boda rider at around 11 am who informed the police.  Shantel’s parents work as casual labourers at the Export Processing Zone, Athi-river.  “We will pursue all leads to find those that committed this heinous act even though the kidnappers have since deactivated the Airtel line,” said the DCI officer.      Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death  Over 60,000 residents in Kajiado County to benefit from the Oloitoktok water and Sewerage project By Peterson Githaiga | 2 days ago By Erastus Mulwa | 2 days ago By Erastus M Mulwa | 3 days ago By Erastus Mulwa | 3 days ago Uhuru remarks in Kisumu brought to court’s attention