Detectives hope a CCTV camera at a building near where Patrick Bedo was killed will provide them vital clues in their investigations.  The sleuths from Ongata Rongai Police Station revisited the scene, securing footage from a CCTV camera mounted on one of the buildings next to the open field where the Central African Republic (CAR) was murdered on Friday.  Bedo succumbed to stab wounds inflicted by assailants said to be two. The 34-year-old was in the company of Jonathan Matuku also from CAR, Ivy Musumbi and another woman who yesterday denied having friendship with the trio.  But even as the police tried to string all the strands of evidence together to untangle the mystery some of the people believed to have witnessed the killing have clammed up.  “I don’t know those people, in fact, I am the one who notified the police about the incident,” said the woman claiming she was among the first people to arrive at the scene after someone called, informing her about the attack.  Gang murders jovial foreigner in suspected love triangle in Rongai   This woman, some sources indicated had been together with the victims, shortly before the attack.  Some of the locals said the woman and Ivy were in Bedo’s house until the wee hours of the night. Bedo had thrown a farewell night party.  Bedo, Matuku, Ivy and the ‘mysterious’ woman were attacked by a gang at the open field. It remains unclear what the four were doing outside those odd hours at around 2.20 am when they were attacked.  According to Ngong Police Commander Patrick Manyasa, one of the women was being escorted back to her house when Bedo and his guests bumped into two armed men.  A fight ensued after the two men tried to repulse the attackers who were armed with knives. Bedo died on the spot, while Matuku and Ivy are admitted to hospital. One of the women was sexually molested.  The other woman escaped unscathed. Residents said she is the one who raised the alarm. But when Sunday Standard sought her version on what transpired, she distanced herself from the incident, saying she was a mere witness. She declined to identify herself.  In the course of the conversation, a man grabbed her phone, cautioning this writer against interviewing the woman. “You must have some courtesy, these people are still devastated and mourning, give them time to heal first,” said the man.  Detectives believe they can retrieve crucial leads from the CCTV footage that might have among other evidence, captured images of the mysterious woman and number of criminals.  Bedo had lived in the area for six months and was planning to move to a more spacious house when he met his death after holding a farewell bash at his bedsitter house.  Meanwhile, a girlfriend to Bedo traveled from Nakuru back to Rongai yesterday following the tragic incident. The university student was on break and had gone to her parents.  “I have just arrived in Rongai, I will talk to you later,” she said.   By Hudson Gumbihi | 22 hours ago By Peterson Githaiga | 22 hours ago By Mate Tongola | 1 day ago By Mireri Junior | 1 day ago