Justices Joel Ngugi and George Odunga are among the six judges left out of President Uhuru's appointments. [File, Standard]  Four judges nominated by the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) to join the Court of Appeal have been left out in the President’s appointment on Thursday, June 3.  Justices Joel Ngugi, George Odunga, Weldon Korir and Aggrey Muchelule, who sought appellate court positions are among the six left out in President Uhuru’s appointments this evening. The others Evans Kiago and Elizabeth Omange who would have joined the Environment and Land Court.  President Uhuru gazetted the appointment of 36 judges, seven of whom are expected to join the Court of Appeal leaving out the four.  The seven newly appointed judges of the Court of Appeal are Justices Francis Tuiyott, Omondi Hellen Amollo, Nyamweya Pauline Nyaboke, Msagha Amraphael Mbogholi, Dr. Kibaya Imaana Laibuta, Lady Justice Lesiit Jessie Wanjiku and Lady Justice Ngugi Grace Mumbi.  BBI appeal: Battle Royale starts  Court of Appeal sets BBI hearing date  BBI: Court of Appeal President Daniel Musinga warns parties in the case  CJ Koome gazettes election of Justice Musinga as Appeal court president According to the Judiciary, the four who were to join the second court "did not meet the threshold" for appointment therefore, their appointment was referred back to the judiciary.  Justices Joel Ngugi and George Odunga were part of the five-judge bench that made the judgement against the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) that rendered the process unconstitutional, null and void.  Initially, JSC had nominated 11 judges of the High Court to join the Court of Appeal.  The president delayed the appointment on grounds that some of the judges nominated to fill the positions at the Court of Appeal had “questionable background”.      BBI Case set to go to Court of Appeal with spotlight on the Judicial bench  The process of removing a judge in Kenya  JSC committee probing bribery allegations against Justice Philip Tunoi postpones verdict By Pkemoi Ng’enoh | 21 minutes ago By Kamore Maina | 1 hour ago By Paul Ogemba | 9 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 9 hours ago Grab a copy of today's Standard & Nairobian Epaper for only 10/-