A bus conductor on Wednesday, June 2, saved a teenage girl from a sex predator after she boarded their bus plying the Nairobi-Mombasa route to meet a man she had contact with on Facebook.  According to the conductor of the Executive Bus company, they were forced to accommodate the teenage girl at their Mombasa office and return her to Machakos before reporting the matter to the police.  The girl is reported to have boarded the bus at Machakos Junction headed to the coast to meet a stranger she had contact with on Facebook but lied she was going to visit her brother who stays in Mariakani.  When the conductor asked her to pay her bus fare amounting to Sh1,500, the girl had only Sh500 but promised to settle the balance before they reached Mtito Andei, a promise that was not honoured.  Why reporting stolen phones to police is teary affair for victims  Body of a girl found dumped in a thicket in Kitengela  Murder suspect escapes from Mombasa court  Prison warden in Sh200m fake job racket surrenders to police The conductor became suspicious and called the stranger the girl had introduced as a brother asking him to come to the bus stop and settle the remaining Sh1000.  “Upon reaching Samburu, the conductor called the man and tricked him that they had arrived in Mariakani, but the man told him to send the girl to Kaloleni by a motorbike, where she would meet him and settle the balance.”  Fearing for the young girl’s safety and tired of being taken on a wild-goose chase, the conductor went with the girl to Mombasa, where her safety was assured.  Later on, the girl confessed that the man whom she was about to meet was not her brother but a stranger with whom they had only established contact through Facebook.  The bus company was forced to return the girl to Machakos Junction after she disowned the man who had come to pick her, saying he did not resemble the man they had been chatting with on Facebook.  “The bus company provided accommodation for the teenager and a bus ride back to Machakos Junction, where she had boarded their bus the previous day,” said DCI.  The conductor said cases of teenage girls being lured by strangers through social media are on the rise citing another case where a 17-year-old girl who had just sat her KCSE, boarded their bus at Matuu early this week and alighted at Mombasa to meet a man she did not know.  Warning  Detectives from the Anti Human Trafficking and Child Protection Unit have launched investigations into the incident.  Directorate of Criminal Investigation officers have warned parents and guardians of a new trend being used by sexual predators to prey on young girls.  Detectives said the predators target the school-going girls and those who have just completed their secondary school education through social media.   Finally Justice for Kwekwe's family after Court sets a date  Police officers convicted of killing 14 year old Kwekwe Mwandaza to know their fate on Monday  Two police men convicted of manslaughter By Pkemoi Ng’enoh | 23 minutes ago By Kamore Maina | 1 hour ago By Paul Ogemba | 9 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 9 hours ago Kitengela, the new home of notorious criminal gangs