Deputy President William Ruto has arrived at the venue of this year's Madaraka Day celebrations after missing out in President Uhuru Kenyatta's working tour of Nyanza region.  The DP who was accompanied by his wife Rachel Ruto arrived at the Jomo Kenyatta Stadium at around 11:20 am.  Moments before he arrived at the Stadium, Ruto was greeted with loud cheers at Kondele.  At the Stadium, however, the DP received a lukewarm welcome from the crowd.  Several legislators allied to Ruto led by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria were in accompaniment.  How different was this Madaraka Day celebration from last year  PLO Lumumba, Muluka and Ndolo celebrate Madaraka Day exercising at Camp Toyoyo  Uhuru, Ruto differ on Judiciary   Why Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium has no walls The developments come a day after a section of the DP’s foot soldiers criticised Uhuru's working tour in Nyanza for sidelining Ruto in his program.  They claimed that the visit was pegged on political interests and not genuine development concerns.  Deputy President William Ruto (in black shirt) with wife Rachael arrive at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport for Madaraka day celebrations. [Mumo Munuve, Standard]  In the last two days, President Uhuru has traversed parts of Siaya and Kisumu as he unveiled a number of projects.  He was accompanied by ODM leader Raila Odinga who also played a pivotal role in the preparations for the Madaraka day fete.  The projects included those that were birthed through the handshake between the two leaders.  Apart from the DP, several other leaders are attending the celebrations including members of the One Kenya Alliance led by Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi, ANC's Musalia Mudavadi, and Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka.   Venue of Madaraka Day celebrations could be changed following fears of possible spike in Covid cases  Leaders from Nyanza region hold meeting with President Kenyatta ahead of Madaraka day celebrations  Mauaji Kisumu: Mhudumu wa bodaboda amuuwa kijana na kujisalimisha kwa polisi huko Nyalunya, Kisumu By Winfrey Owino | 1 hour ago By Patrick Vidija | 3 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 5 hours ago By Washington Onyango | 6 hours ago ‘Achana naye aende’: Why Uhuru stopped Madaraka Day speech to make these remarks