Belgian Ambassador Nicholas Nihon when he presented his credentials to President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House Nairobi.  Kenya is yet to fully exploit existing foreign investment opportunities; Belgian Ambassador Nicholas Nihon has said.  The envoy said while Belgium’s annual exports to Kenya stand at Sh13 billion, Kenya exports about Sh7 billion worth of goods to Belgian markets.  The ambassador spoke during KTN News Diplomat interview. He noted that the Belgian market has diversified investment opportunities for Kenyan entrepreneurs.    Kisumu All Stars eye top two as Super League enters penultimate stage  Ruto publicly embraces UDA  Living in the shadows of Knut’s past victories  Chairmanless KPA to have no MD soon Nihon said this trade imbalance presents an opportunity for the two countries to close the gap.  “We must make use of commercially available business opportunities like diversification of exports, value addition, foreign direct investment in emerging areas of ICT, gas, coal and oil,” he said.  He said the two countries can double efforts to enhance tourism whose numbers have been decreasing.  “Kenya has a wide variety of fauna and flora, and many diversified tourist attraction sites which offer a wide range of experiences. Belgian companies should be encouraged to invest and enter into partnerships with Kenyan tour operators to tap into this market,” he said.  He said Kenya has done well in the European markets compared to other East African countries.  “Kenya wants to move forward in this market through the Economic Partnership Agreement. Other EAC countries were somehow reluctant but Kenya demonstrated that things can happen,” he said.  Ambassador Nihon said foreign investments in Kenya remain relatively weak considering the size of its economy and its level of development. Kenya is one of the largest recipients of FDI in Africa, with FDI inflows significantly increasing since 2010.  According to figures from UNCTAD's 2020 World Investment Report, FDI flows in Kenya decreased by 18 per cent to USD 1.3 billion in 2019 compared to USD 1.6 billion in 2018 despite several new projects in information technology and health care.  The figures further indicate that the total stock of FDI stood at USD 15.7 billion in 2019 with the ICT sector having the biggest chunk in recent years. This is attributed to the arrival of fibre optics in 2009-2010.   The other sectors targeted by FDI are banking, tourism, infrastructure and extractive industries. The United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium, China and South Africa are the main investors in Kenya.  In 2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, FDI flows in direction to the country fell significantly. This is because investment was hit by budget cuts and a morose business climate.  The government has however been actively taking measures and implementing reforms to attract FDI.  As a result, Kenya made progress in the Doing Business ranking published by the World Bank. It was ranked 56th worldwide, for the ease of doing business in 2020 Doing Business Report of the World Bank.  In the 2019 edition, the country was ranked 61st. Kenya also improved the reliability of electricity supply by modernising its existing infrastructure.  Registering property, getting credit, protecting minority investors, tax payment and resolving insolvency are the other aspects where the country has made notable changes.  Ambassador Nihon said Kenya plays a pivotal role in the East African Community, acting as a regional economic hub.  “Nevertheless, numerous obstacles to investment persist, notably poor infrastructure, skill shortages, instability related to terrorist risk and political, social and ethnic divisions, ineffective rule of law and corruption,” he said.  State to state loans  The envoy said Nairobi has done well with state-to-state loans granted by the Belgian government. He said his government was satisfied with the flexibility of the loans.  “These loans are tailored to offer solutions to various government institutions. Although the Kenyan government has always approached us for more, we have been open in letting them know that there is always a limit to what we can offer,” he said.  The envoy said an upcoming state visit by President Uhuru Kenyatta at the end of this month, will explore more areas where Kenyan entrepreneurs can invest in.  “President Kenyatta will have a meeting with the King and I am sure going forward, we shall see more Kenyan products hitting our markets,” he said.   MBIU YA KTN [2]: Mzozo wa ardhi Wasini, Wakaazi waandamana Isiolo, Karim Khana ala kiapo  Viongozi wa KANU ukanda wa Nyanza waunga Seneta Gideon Moi kuwania nafasi ya urais  MBIU YA KTN[1]: Mauaji South B, Kilio cha UASU, Gavana Waiguru apinga kauli za Kimunya By Harold Odhiambo | 39 minutes ago By Winfrey Owino | 1 hour ago By Frankline Sunday | 2 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 4 hours ago