Hafsa Mohammed Lukman went missing from her shoe shop in Kamukunji Trading Centre on Tuesday, June 15. [Courtesy]  A 23-year-old woman from California Estate in Nairobi has been kidnapped, with her abductors demanding a Sh5 million ransom.  Hafsa Mohammed Lukman went missing from her shoe shop in Kamukunji Trading Centre on Tuesday, June 15.  “Her abductors last texted us on Wednesday, June 16 at 11:30pm saying they needed the ransom,” Hafsa’s brother-in-law Omar Ibrahim told The Standard.  “We are worried they might harm her.”  Woman reported to police for neglecting ‘her child’ exposed as kidnapper  Security consultant Mwenda Mbijiwe goes missing  Suspect in kidnapping and killing of Kitengela girl Shantel arrested  Body of missing businessman Bashir Mohammed found in Kerugoya Surveillance camera recordings at Hafsa’s shop showed she entered the store at 4:44pm on Tuesday in the company of another woman, who has been identified as Hafsa Abdulwahab. The two, almost immediately, left for Kayole for reasons yet to be known.   Hafsa Abdulwahab, also a businesswoman, went missing alongside Hafsa Mohammed on Tuesday, June 15. [Courtesy]  It has now emerged Abdulwahab, who sells watermelon in bulk at Kayole, is also missing.  On Wednesday 4pm, the abductors sent a 35-second video clip to Hafsa’s family showing her blindfolded with her hands and legs tied, suggesting she had been tortured.  A distressed Hafsa is heard pleading with her family, saying: “Nimeshikwa na wanataka pesa, tafadhali mtume pesa (I have been kidnapped, and they’re demanding ransom. Please, send it).”  Her family is now pleading for quick intervention.  Abdulwahab’s family has also urged police to help their missing kin.   Worrying trend of missing persons force Kenyans to turn to social media to find missing relatives  Wakenya wabuni njia za kuwatafuta jamaa zao wanaopotea kupitia mtandao  KTN Leo Full bulletin, 30 Agosti 2015 By Standard Reporter | 2 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 4 hours ago By Kamore Maina | 1 day ago By Winfrey Owino | 1 day ago