Nominated Senator Victor Prengei who died in a road accident yesterday night, will be majorly remembered for fighting for minority group rights and the youth.  In his condolence message, Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui eulogised Prengei as a dynamic and dedicated servant of the people.  “He represented the Ogiek Community in Senate and was a beacon of hope to many. His elevation to the Senate was a major recognition to the rights of the Ogiek and other minority communities. He was a quiet and humble leader, always conscious of the huge burden he carried,” Kinyanjui said.   Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. But, little is known of the senator.  Tribute: Victor Prengei fought for rights of minority groups  Nominated Senator Victor Prengei is dead  Omanga and Prengei pledge loyalty to Jubilee, president  Hell hath no fury like political sponsor rattled Prengei was nominated to Senate in 2017, to champion rights of minority group (the Ogiek) and represent the youth in Jubilee Party.  He was also among the six senators expelled from Jubilee party in February this year, over disciplinary violations.  Prengei, Isaac Mwaura, Mary Seneta, Falhada Dekow Iman, Naomi Jillo Waqo, Millicent Omanga and Christine Gona were expelled by the National Management Committee (NMC).  They had appeared before the disciplinary committee this and last year over allegations of insubordination and gross misconduct.  During his political career, Prengei served as the Vice-Chairperson- Ongoing of Committee on Energy.  He joined the ruling Jubilee party in 2017, at just 36 years.  Before joining politics, Prengei served as the Nakuru County Land Management Board Chairperson in 2015 and was also a board member at the Betting Control and Licensing Board.  He held a Bachelor’s Degree in Economics from Maseno University, and a Master’s Degree in Strategic Management from JKUAT.  Prengei died on Monday, August 16, after he was involved in a road accident at Gioto area in Nakuru County.  Police reports say the lawmaker was heading towards Kabarak direction from Nakuru Town, when the vehicle he was driving lost control and careened off the road before landing in a ditch at 9:45pm.   By Stephen Rutto | 40 minutes ago By Lyn Kolongei | 5 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 7 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 15 hours ago