Kirui, an M-Pesa agent, was killed on August 6 when he completed paying for a Toyota Fielder. [Courtesy]  Detectives in Kericho have arrested four suspects behind a syndicate that involves luring unsuspecting motor vehicle buyers before killing them.  County Criminal Investigations officer John Onyango said they busted the gang following the murder of 26-year-old M-Pesa agent Alex Kirui.  Kirui was killed on August 6 when he completed paying for a Toyota Fielder the suspects had lured him into buying. His body was found in a culvert in Siongiroi, Bomet County. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. Kirui’s relatives said he had paid Sh500,000 deposit and was paying the balance, same amount, when he was killed.  Collapse of Soin Sugar factory miller dashes hopes of Kericho farmers  Police probe abduction, death of M-Pesa agent  Governor Chepkwony grilled over Sh71m tender  Residents thwart developer's bid to put up rentals on public land Mr Onyango said they busted the gang’s leader, a man in his 50s, in Nakuru. “He was inside the car and in the process of selling the same car to another unsuspecting buyer”.  The Kericho CCI said the suspect, in a rush to dispose of the motor vehicle or mislead detectives, had left Kirui’s shoes in the car’s boot.  Kirui worked with Extranet outlets in Kericho. He was stripped before being killed. A post-mortem report indicated he was strangled, his head twisted backward and broken.  The second suspect was caught in Kuresoi’s Olenguruone. “He led us to the third one, who also led us to the fourth suspect in Kipchimchim, Ainamoi. They together participated in the murder of Kirui,” said Onyango.   The suspect’s vehicle, in which the killing of Kirui is thought to have happened, was towed to Kericho. “We are in the process of taking down the suspects’ statements. They will be arraigned to answer to murder and robbery with violence charges,” he said.      Standard Group Sam Shollei; Launches KTN News Channel sensitization caravan  Bomet governor Isaac Ruto rubbishes allegations of using county funds to campaign in Kericho  Kericho senator Aaron Cheruyot challenges working class go back to their previous schools and help By Antony Gitonga | 1 day ago By James Munyeki | 1 day ago By Daniel Chege | 2 days ago By Stephen Rutto | 2 days ago