Two criminals were shot dead by the police in Kilimani last night.  A car-jacking attempt by two armed men turned fatal after police responding to victims' distress call shot the two in a shootout.   Armed with a Russian-made pistol and two other handguns, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations said the criminals subdued a taxi driver and his client at Chania Avenue.  They then robbed them of their mobile phones and took over their vehicle.   Stop Playing God  Direct graft war to counties, Poghisio urges President Uhuru  DCI explains raid on Justice Muchelule, Chitembwe's chambers  DCI urged to speed up Stuchburry murder probe "As the suspects were bolting out after what they believed was a successful mission, police officers blocked their way ordering them to surrender," the DCI said.  But with three guns in hand, the suspects defied the order and opened fire as they took off.  The officers responded and fatally injured the duo.  Four mobile phones, including the two stolen from the victims, were recovered alongside the three guns as well as six bullets.  After the 10pm incident, the victims were escorted to safety as the bodies of the criminals were taken to a city morgue pending identification.  Meanwhile, robbers keep changing their mode of operation unlike before when they used to sneak away on foot after committing crimes, Deputy Police Spokesperson Charles Koskei says.  “They realised that they are being easily caught and lynched, thus they have resorted to boda bodas because of speed and easy escape,” he said.  Mr Koskei said from updates he has received between July 16-21, there has been a case involving a teen in Mombasa’s Mathare area who was killed by a mob after he snatched a mobile phone.  Then there was another case at Githurai roundabout were assailants on a motorbike snatched a bag from a woman.  “Another case was reported at Landhies Road within Kamukunji where a suspect was fatally injured by police and a pistol and stolen phone recovered. There was also a case at Junction Mall on July 19 where two boys on motorbike snatched someone’s phone.”  In all these cases, either police have arrested or rescued them from being subjected to lynching.  The public has got power to arrest suspects and hand them over to the police instead of killing them as much as they are angered, he added.   Babu Owino afikishwa mahakamani kwa mashtaka ya kumdhulumu mshindani wake Mike Jacobs  What exactly brought down the wall of Death along Ring Road in Nairobi  Watu 4 wafariki baada ya ukuta kuporomoka katika eneo ya Kilimani By Collins Kweyu | 3 days ago By Josphat Thiongó | 5 days ago By Brian Obuya | 5 days ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 5 days ago