Lawyer Paul Gicheru. [Stafford Ondego, Standard]  International Criminal Court (ICC) has postponed lawyer Paul Gicheru’s status conference.  Trial Chamber III judge Miatta Maria Samba has allowed Gicheru’s prayer to push the trial by a week.  The judge said although Gicheru ought to disclose further why the court should push the case from September 17 to 24, the prosecution did not object.    Grand return to The Hague loading, same leading cast  ICC evidence against Ruto to be used in lawyer Paul Gicheru case  Lawyer Paul Gicheru asks ICC to push status conference date  Sierra Leone-born judge picked to hear lawyer Paul Gicheru’s case at The Hague “According to the first sentence of regulation 35(2) of the regulations of the court, the chamber may extend a time limit if good cause is shown. In this specific instance, although the chamber considers that the request could benefit from further substantiation, it notes that the prosecution does not oppose the postponement,” she ruled.  On the day, the prosecution will disclose to the court the material evidence it will be submitting to the court.   It will also tell the judge whether there is a need for protecting witnesses, including the additional need for redactions, delayed disclosure, or referrals to the court’s witnesses.  The prosecution will also tell the court whether there are any active investigations, and disclose identity of witness who had not been revealed to Gicheru.  Meanwhile, Gicheru will explain whether he intends to defend himself and the length of his opening statement.  Gicheru will know the number of witnesses to be called, and if there is testimony to be provided by audio or video links.    Karim Khan sworn in as ICC's Chief Prosecutor at the Hague taking over from Fatou Bensouda of Gambia  Karim Khan achukua kiapo cha afisi ya ICC, ana kibarua kikubwa kinachomsubiri  Thanksgiving prayers for Joshua Arap Sang at his Seum home church By Kennedy Gachuhi | 2 hours ago By PSCU | 3 hours ago By Patrick Muinde | 12 hours ago By James Wanzala | 13 hours ago Secret calls that led to removal of Ruto's elite GSU security team