Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir at the Parliament buildings, Nairobi. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  A report on the beneficiaries of the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (KEMSA) scandal is ready for tabling before Parliament.  The chairperson of the Public Investment Committee (PIC) and Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir revealed that members have already gone through the report, documented their observations and signed it.  “We (MPs) are currently on recess.  The report will, therefore, be tabled after recess. The members have already adopted it,” Nassir stated.  The lawmaker, who was the guest on Spice FM on Thursday morning, underscored the negative consequence of corruption on the Kenyan economy.  Patients turned away as drug shortage bites over Sh39 million Kemsa debt  MPs blame Kagwe over Kemsa Covid-19 scandal  Sh7b Covid-19 items still stuck at Kemsa over Cabinet delay  Waterfront park finally opened for traders “Corruption has hit this country to a level where 30 per cent of our expenses can be attributed to the vice,” he said.  Parliament resumes from recess on September 6, 2021, when Kenyans can expect to know details of the report.  KEMSA report to be tabled when Parliament resumes after recess.  Public Investment Committee Chair .@A_S_Nassir was in #TheSituationRoom .@EricLatiff @nduokoh @ctmuga @StandardKenya pic.twitter.com/tpP1IOrInT  Almost one year after Kenyans got wind of the impropriety in the acquisition of Sh7.8 billion Covid-19 equipment, arrests and convictions are yet to be made.  In August last year, KEMSA, which had been legally tasked with procuring Covid-19 protective equipment, caught the attention of the President after being put on the spot over the looted Sh7.8 billion.  President Kenyatta, as a result, ordered speedy investigations into the embezzlement.  “In line with our stated public policy on zero tolerance to corruption, all persons found to be prima facie culpable because of those investigations should be brought to book, notwithstanding the public office they hold or their political or social status,” the President said in an August 2020 televised address.  Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe, several companies and individuals have been probed in connection with the scandal.  In July 2021, MPs faulted Kagwe for taking long to react to a report by the National Treasury faulting Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (KEMSA) spending.  The lawmakers said they failed to understand why despite various board meetings, it never got to the CS’s attention that there was an issue, and it had to take an insider to disclose exactly what was happening.  “Were you not briefed on what was happening at KEMSA despite having a representative? Is that why Kenyans had to wait until the Treasury flagged off the expenditure issues?” Wajir East MP Amin Rashid Kassim posed during a grilling session.   KEMSA scandal: Covid-19 related material suppliers to KEMSA risk losing millions  KEMSA SCANDAL : DPP Haji says culprits will face the law, probe into suspected theft ongoing  EACC Officers raid KEMSA offices in Nairobi By Moses Nyamori | 5 minutes ago By Amos Kareithi | 20 minutes ago By Jael Mboga | 28 minutes ago By Winfrey Owino | 1 hour ago What to do with Ruto? Uhuru's dilemma and why spat with DP is written in history