The four police officers accused of robbery with violence are being detained at Ruiru Police Station. [Standard]     Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) officers in Ruiru, Kiambu County have arrested four police officers accused of robbery with violence.  Constables Thomas Okuku, Lawrence Mbau, James Munyoki and Dan Keya were arrested on Tuesday, August 17 after allegedly conspiring to steal Sh1,030 from a curfew violator. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. The victim had taken to social media to lament how one of the officers on patrol robbed him of his money after arresting him for violating the 10pm-4am curfew last Thursday.  Man fights order to pay Sh1m for son's upkeep  Police probe abduction, death of M-Pesa agent  The anatomy of the Kenyan digital borrower  Safaricom takes fight to global payment firms with M-Pesa App The victim alleged the officer, who was armed, asked him for his M-Pesa PIN and went ahead to transfer the money to another mobile wallet.  He was, thereafter, allowed to go home.  Following his complaint on social media, DCI detectives took up the matter and obtained the victim’s money transfer records from telecommunications company Safaricom.  “Upon scrutiny of the data, the following police officers were arrested at Ruiru Police Station for robbery with violence: Thomas Okuku, Lawrence Mbau, James Munyoki and Dan Kenya,” says a police report filed at the Ruiru Police Station under the OB Number 71/17/8/2021.  Also arrested alongside the four cops are Charles Muteria; an M-Pesa shop owner, and Bosco Ereng; Muteria’s employee.  “Muteria and Ereng are assisting police in the investigation,” said the report.  The victim said after one of the officers allegedly sent the money to another mobile number, his (victim) attempts to reverse the transaction were unsuccessful as the receiver of the funds had already withdrawn the money.  “Sh1,030 might appear little to some people, but to my family, it was a meal, shelter, security and assurance of a better day ahead,” said the victim on social media.  Kiambu County Police Commander Ali Nuno told The Standard that the suspects, who were armed, “handcuffed the man and thereafter transferred his money to the mobile wallet belonging to one of them”.   TRANSITION: Woman with skull preserved in the stomach dies  Safaricom announce 15 percent growth in profits  Changia mgonjwa wa saratani Josephine Mukite kupitia nambari ya M-pesa paybill : 761818 By Boniface Gikandi | 1 hour ago By Kamau Muthoni | 17 hours ago By Gitau Wanyoike | 5 days ago By Muriithi Mugo | 6 days ago