House of Grace Bishop David Muriithi has committed to paying Sh10,000 monthly to foot maintenance bills for a child he is alleged to have sired out of wedlock.  In his reply to the case filed against him, the bishop however urged the court to dismiss some of the demands by the child’s mother saying he relies on donations from well-wishers and family for his livelihood.  "The applicant and I had a short-lived relationship on and off which ended in the year 2018. When I met the applicant, she was living in a rented house with her other teenage child sired from a different relationship where she paid her own rent," says Muriithi.   The Bishop said he does not live a lavish life as the woman had claimed in her petition. On the flip side, he says, that during their short-lived love, she had her own gainful business.    “As much as I am a Bishop in the church that I head, it is not true that I live a high-end life. That is the figment of the applicant’s imagination,” he pleads, adding that she may have conceived in order to "get a slice of the high-end life."  He denied knowing that she was pregnant adding that he came to learn about it when he called to check on her.  According to him, she informed him of the minor after they had parted ways and kept off each other for a long time.  “…as a responsible Kenyan I am offering to take responsibility of paying fees for the minor as well as payment of Sh10,000 per month for the minor's subsistence. I make the commitment herein bearing in mind my limited means and family responsibilities which I am obliged to meet as well as the fact that the minor’s education will take the largest share of the maintenance,” he replied.  He says that he has a wife and children who he takes care of using the donations from well-wishers and that the remittances are erratic.  The cleric argues that the intention to have his story on the media was meant to either extort or embarrass him. He is of the view that the articles were meant to have him give in and it was not about the welfare of the two-year-old minor.  "I am convinced it will be the best interest of the child for me take reasonable parental responsibility over the child, whom the applicant claims to be mine... to protect the innocent minor," the bishop argues.  He said that he is aware that she is enjoying a good life as she has a comfortable home that she lives with a teenage child and the one that ropes them together.  “She should continue offering shelter for the minor in the same premises she lives with her other son,” he argued adding that he would not pay Sh35,000 rent as she has demanded. According to him, he met her while she was footing her own rent.  He is of the view that since the minor is two years old, he can only take up his school fees when he gets to four years. The Bishop says that the amount of money will be determined by the school that will be agreed between him and the minor’s mother.  He also wants the court to dismiss the prayer for paid cable TV services and WiFi saying that they are not basic needs.  “I am fully aware that the applicant is currently enjoying a comfortable abode which she shares with her teenage son as well as the minor herein and it is the case that she is well in position to provide accommodation and food,” he continued.   By Joackim Bwana | 5 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago