Kisumu Governor Peter Anyang' Nyong'o. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  Kisumu County plans to host an investor conference between September 26 to 29, 2021 to market its many investment opportunities.  Speaking in Nairobi yesterday after meeting the diplomatic community, Kisumu County Governor Anyang' Nyong’o said the meeting with diplomats was among many others the county plans to have with government parastatals, the private sector and the local business community before the conference.  ‘‘The diplomatic community wanted to know some information that was missing, including the comparative advantage of Kisumu within the Lake Region Economic Bloc and the East Africa region considering Kisumu is an entry point to both regions, sitting at the end of Lake Victoria and enjoying maritime advantage,’’ said Prof Nyong’o.  The diplomats who met Nyong'o were Chol Ajongo (S Sudan), Ashish Sinha (Unep and UN-Habitat) and Gerald Ockotch (South Africa).  Inside the IDP camp where flood victims go for days without food  Raila's Nyanza rally postponed over Covid fears  Kisumu MCAs defend benchmarking trip to Arusha   Uproar as Kisumu MCAs make another bonding trip to Tanzania Nyong'o said the conference would be held at Jomo Kenyatta International Sports Ground under strict Covid-19 containment measures.  Among the areas the county plans to market are opportunities in agriculture, tourism, manufacturing, industrialisation, sports, health, culture and talent development, film, infrastructure, and energy.  The meeting comes a few months to the Africities conference, which will take place next April. The Africities is a Pan-African event that is held every three years in one of the five regions of Africa.  Help us improve our website!  Nyanza clergy speak on Covid-19 guidelines imposed on the 13 counties  Government to take stringent measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the Lake region  Leaders from Nyanza region hold meeting with President Kenyatta ahead of Madaraka day celebrations By Kevin Ogutu | 5 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 5 hours ago By James Omoro | 5 hours ago By Erick Abuga | 5 hours ago