President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) has extended Covid-19 containment measures for another 60 days.  Uhuru's statement was released after he met opposition leaders at State House, Mombasa. The meeting was also attended by Health CS Mutahi Kagwe.  The President met a cross-section of political party leaders to discuss Covid-19 containment measures in the wake of rising infections and deaths. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. ODM leader Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Gideon Moi (Kanu) and Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya) attended.  Mr President, lift the curfew and ramp up coronavirus vaccination  Police should not take orders from National Security Advisory team, court says  Health gets largest share as Kirinyaga MCAs approve Sh6.6 billion budget  Kenya to receive Pfizer, Moderna, J&J vaccines by mid-September Also present at the meeting were Head of Public Service Dr Joseph Kinyua and Interior CS Fred Matiang'i.  The differentiated curfew hours for the previously identified Covid-19 hotspot zones of Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay, Migori, Busia, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma, Kisii, Nyamira, Kericho, Bomet, and Trans Nzoia are lifted.  These counties will now observe the nationwide curfew.  Other containment measures include:  -- All physical/in-person public gatherings and meetings, including political rallies and campaign meetings for impending by-elections are suspended for 60 days.  -- All other social gatherings, including weddings, funerals, and similar events or ceremonies shall strictly adhere to the 100-person attendance limit.  -- Officiators and proprietors of funeral homes are to strictly adhere to the prescribed 96 hours of confirmation of death, and secure processing for burial within this period.  -- Places of worship nationwide shall continue to strictly adhere to the one-third rule for in-person worship and congregational worship, and protocols on hygiene and social distancing in accordance with the guidelines of the Inter-Faith Council.  -- The operations of bars, restaurants, and eateries shall continue as guided by the Ministry of Health guidelines, failure to which appropriate action against management shall be taken;  Uhuru said national government administration officers are to secure compliance with these directives without fail.   In enforcing these measures all security sector agencies are expected to ensure organisers or individual leaders, including senior public sector officials and political leaders, take personal responsibility and are held to account for any violation of the measures.  Uhuru said the interventions initiated last year to mitigate local community transmission of coronavirus have been largely effective.  "Evaluated reports have pointed to an exponential rise in infection across counties, occasioned by unrestrained gatherings in breach of guidelines as issued by the Ministry of Health," he said.  President Kenyatta added that 18 counties have recorded a positivity rate above 20 per cent.  Over the last week, Kiambu, Nyandarua, Murang’a, Makueni, Machakos, Baringo, Meru, and Nyeri have recorded a positivity rate of above 30 per cent.  Uhuru said studies have shown the presence of the delta variant of Covid-19 which is more communicable and acute, and that ‘super-spreader’ events are likely to further hurt public health.   Ministry of Health receives 180,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine as a donation from Gov't of Greece  HEALTH WATCH: How Covid-19 misinformation worldwide has created panic by misleading masses  KEMRI makes a breakthrough in the fight against Covid-19 by developing a Virus Transport Media (VTM) By Hudson Gumbihi | 1 hour ago By Brian Otieno | 1 hour ago By Paul Ogemba | 1 hour ago By Kamau Muthoni | 4 hours ago