ODM leader Raila Odinga with DP William Ruto, 2006. [File, Standard]  Two Narok MPs have differed over the Court of Appeal judgement on the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) Constitutional (Amendment) Bill 2020.  Speaking separately, Narok North MP Moitalel ole Kenta warned Tangatanga leaders against celebrating the court verdict saying this will not affect ODM leader Raila Odinga's presidential bid.   “The Tangatanga wing should not celebrate yet because the Handshake is still alive. Raila Odinga’s race to State House is even stronger now that we have President Uhuru Kenyatta on our side,” said the MP. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey.   Coast biggest loser in BBI verdict, leaders say  Appellate court affirms constitution safeguards   Verdict spells doom for three Bills in Parliament  Ruto sustains his attacks on Uhuru and Raila after BBI fall He said ODM will give Ruto a run for his money in next year’s General Election and promised that the Maa community will stick with Raila and President Kenyatta to the end.  Kenta also questioned the IEBC quorum and the fate of the recent by-elections.  “We have got 10 months to go and I can assure you as a leader from Narok that we are ready for 2022. The court decision was not Tangatanga’s and I wonder why they are celebrating and mentioning God like they have a monopoly,” he said.  Woman Rep Soipan Tuya said BBI judgement was a huge boost to Ruto’s presidential bid since it vindicated his concerns on the document.  She noted that BBI would have dealt a blow to the gender rule and as it was seeking to reduce women to ‘flower girls’ through massive nominations to Parliament.  Tuya who has declared interest in the Narok gubernatorial race said the BBI judgement will not affect her bid.  “My ambition to be Narok Governor is not changed by BBI decision. I am still going for it. For the 10 years I served as Woman Rep, I have built muscle and I'm out to demonstrate that women can vie for competitive position,” she said.   Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana  DP William Ruto has been stopped from travelling to Uganda where he was headed for a private visit  Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens By Wainaina Ndung'u | 4 hours ago By Philip Mwakio | 8 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 8 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 9 hours ago