Forensic officer in a squat position taking a photo of the crime scene.  Relatives of the four young men killed by villagers in Isinya, Kajiado on suspicion of being livestock thieves are seeking justice, as details of how the deceased met their death emerged.  The family spokesman Joseph Macharia, an uncle, said the two men and their cousins were innocent.  Speaking at their Syòkimau home in Machakos yesterday, Macharia said Freddie Wanjiru and Vicky Wanjiru were only out for fun with their sports motorbikes. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey.   School gives adults, street kids second chance at education  Sierra Leone-born judge picked to hear lawyer Paul Gicheru’s case at The Hague  'Iron lady of Kajiado' now eyes governorship  Kitengela of old to become a municipal "It's not logical that these young men were on a mission to steal livestock as it is alleged. It's not the first time they had visited the area for fun," said a grieving Macharia.  A sombre mood engulfed the home yesterday as friends and relatives thronged it to establish the burial plans after a postmortem was conducted on Thursday.  The two brothers had left home with their cousins on Saturday, riding on three sports bikes. They proceeded to Kisanju, an area between Kitengela and Isinya in Kajiado to celebrate their birthdays.  After spending the night in a hotel, they left for their home in the evening but one of the bikes developed a mechanical problem.   As they were trying to fix it at around 11pm, they were attacked by people who accused them of plotting to steal their livestock. All the four were killed on the spot.  One of the boys had a graphic designs shop in Nairobi, the other was in charge of the mother's construction in Syokimau.  Their mother lives has been living in London since 2018. She received the shocking news on Tuesday afternoon at her place of work.  Isinya sub-county police commander Charles Chepkong’a, who confirmed the incident, said investigations had been commenced and detectives are pursuing those responsible.  “We have already identified the bodies and now, we are moving fast with investigations. We want to know what exactly happened to these young men," he said.  Macharia said there was no evidence that the four were planning to steal livestock and, therefore, those who killed them should be brought in book soonest.   Covid and Justice: Resolution of cases in courts has dropped by 53 percent  Missing 11-year-old girl found dead in Olmaa, Kajiado County, she has been missing since 4th April  Mwili wa msichana aliyetoweka tarehe nne mwezi wa Aprili wapatikana kaunti ya Kajiado By Muriithi Mugo | 18 hours ago By Erastus Mulwa | 4 days ago By Muriithi Mugo | 6 days ago By Muriithi Mugo | 7 days ago