Ninety-seven Kenyans have died in one of the Middle East countries in just two years, statistics at the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection show. The majority of the victims died under mysterious circumstances amid allegations of rape and torture in foreign countries.  This has now forced the Labor Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui to plan a trip to Saudi Arabia to meet his counterpart to resolve the rising mistreatment cases of Kenyans who go to the country in search of jobs.  In the last couple of years, tens of Kenyans who had gone to seek greener pastures in the Middle East have been flown back in coffins while others have returned with harrowing stories of torture.  But according to Chelugui, the ministry was keen to resolve the incidents by ensuring those who fly out are registered with the relevant embassies.  The CS noted that many job seekers had not registered with the Kenyan Embassies, making it near impossible to track them in case of a crisis.  Picking up the pieces: Life after shattered Saudi Arabia dreams  23-year-old woman blames mother for woes in Saudi Arabia   Dad, please do something about Middle East killings  Why Kenyan migrant workers love Gulf States despite abuses “We have lost 97 Kenyans in one of the Middle East countries due to various reasons, and we are keen to address these cases,” he said.  Addressing the press after meeting the ministry officials in Naivasha, Chelugui pointed an accusing finger at those Kenyans who were failing to abide by their contracts. “Those who fly out should abide by the laws of the particular countries and make sure they understand the terms and conditions of their contracts,” he said.  He defended recruitment agents in the country, noting that currently, there were 420, and were all vetted before getting their licenses.  Chelugui admitted that unemployment was pushing young women to foreign countries but was quick to note that they should not submit themselves to torture.  “Many of the young women are illiterate, and some people are taking advantage of this. But I shall accompany various State officers for a fact-finding mission in Saudi Arabia,” he said.  The CS, at the same time, announced the ministry was working on child care reforms in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic where hundreds of minors are abused.  Chelugui said some of the reforms included moving away from children’s homes to foster homes and addressing the rising violence cases against women.  “The latest report by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) indicates that we have lost 497 people to suicide since last year, with the youngest being nine years old. It is time we protect minors,” he said.   17,000 out 30,000 people working in the Middle East have working permits  Deal gone sour for Mombasa residents seeking greener pastures in gulf countries  Victim of mistreatment in Middle East recounts encounters of modern day slavery By Betty Njeru | 2 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 15 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 17 hours ago