Classes have been suspended in schools near the home of former Kitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire.  This follows a funeral service of his late wife Jane Bosire set to be conducted at St Patrick’s Nyamwanga Secondary and Nyamwanga Primary schools.  Walter Monayi, a parent, said even if an alternative ground was sought, there will still be a disruption in learning activities.  “Bosire's home is just next to the school. Learners will not withstand the noise from choppers and public address systems at the funeral,” Momanyi said.  Five years ago, the Ministry of Education banned communities from holding funerals services in schools after it emerged that learners had been adversely affected.  Road that has made and destroyed political careers for three decades  Bosire: The government wanted to kill us  Police raid homes of legislators wanted for hate speech  Kitutu Masaba MP's security reinstated by court   By Sunday evening, the grounds were a beehive of activities as bulldozers levelled grounds and repaired roads leading into the school.  The organisers of the event were also setting up tents that will accommodate about 400 mourners.  The event is likely to be conducted in disregard of Covid-19 protocols that require mourners not to exceed 50.  Bosire’s wife, Jane, who died 10 days ago while undergoing treatment at the Nairobi Hospital, will be buried today at Nyamwanga.  Richard Kaka, Nyamira Orange Democratic Movement Chairman, confirmed Sunday that ODM leaders led by Raila Odinga are expected to attend the funeral.  Others expected at the event are Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i and MPs Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango), Jerusha Momanyi (Women Rep), Ben Momanyi (Borabu), Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango) and Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba).   Hate speech suspects skip court hearing  CORD leader Raila Odinga accusses Jubilee of oppressing the opposition  Arrested CORD and Jubilee legislators file an appeal against decision to detain them  By Anne Atieno | 4 hours ago By Anne Atieno | 1 day ago By Isaiah Gwengi | 2 days ago By James Omoro | 2 days ago