Narok County Governor Samuel Tunai. [Boniface Thuku, Standard]  Governor Samuel Tunai declared interest in the senatorial seat.   Tunai who has lately been seen traversing the country is serving his second and last term as governor.  His close allies have been urging him to remain in politics as he was still “too young to retire”. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey.   County stadium finally renamed after Ntimama  Watch out for my song that will expose corruption- Senator Ledama   Raila tells the Maasai to be wary of leaders who are not genuine  Leaders mourn widow of ex-minister William ole Ntimama “Our governor is too young to exit the political scene and that is why we want him to go for the senate seat,” said Benard Torome, Narok Town Ward MCA and the assembly Leader of Majority.  Tunai who comes from the minority Siria clan was elected on the platform of uniting communities in the cosmopolitan county will be competing against incumbent Senator Ledama Kina (ODM), and land rights activist Meitamei Ololdapash. Julius Kuiyoni, a journalist who worked with a local radio station Maiyan FM, is also eyeing the senate post.  Those seeking to replace Tunai as governor include Labour CAS Patrick Ntutu, Youth Affairs PS Charles Sunkuli and MPs Soipan Tuya (Woman Rep), Korei Lemein (Narok South), Gabriel Tongoyo (Narok West) and Korei ole Lemein (Narok South).  Ntutu is banking on his experience as MP, state officer and his previous performance where he came second to Governor Tunai. “I came second last time and that is why in 2022 I should take over,” said Ntutu.  On her part, Tuya warned her male colleagues to prepare for a bruising battle in the polls.  “I have traversed Narok County and I have heard from the electorate that they want a new menu this time around. They want a woman governor and I am in,” said the legislator.     Kirinyaga & Narok listed as counties with most opaque budgets after scoring zero points in survey  Taharuki bado imetandaa huko kuresoi  Mau-Narok tribal clashes leave atleast two people dead By Winfrey Owino | 2 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 5 hours ago By Nehemiah Okwembah | 7 hours ago By Eric Abuga and Nathan Ochunge | 10 hours ago