ODM has issued a notice of motion in the National Assembly seeking to compel the Government to lift the curfew and relax other Covid-19 containment measures.  The party through chairman John Mbadi and Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir argued that the tough Ministry of Health protocols aimed at curbing spread of the pandemic have had a negative impact on the economy. Among the proposed intervention measures through the Economic Stimulus Package is remodelling of the Kazi Mtaani concept for the rural folks dubbed Kazi Mashambani, enhanced stipend for the elderly, orphans and the vulnerable.  The Orange party wants the Government to instead put emphasis on mass vaccination. The motion mirror’s the economic plan that Raila Odinga spelt out during his visit to Mombasa. Raila said this will lead to full opening up of the economy.   Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. “Covid-19 pandemic continues to devastate Kenyans as exemplified by its staggering effects on economic growth that have led to massive job losses and unprecedented layoffs, an underperforming financial market, distortion of monetary and fiscal policies,” said Nassir.  Editorial: Balls and pins  Raila axe lands on Kingi as ODM puts Coast 'rebels' on notice  I wish ODM well, Kingi says on his ouster   Governor Kingi removed as ODM chairperson in Kilifi as Raila claims betrayal He also cited the weak shilling, fluctuating global trade and strain on medical facilities as reasons to review the protocols. The Mvita MP, also the Public Investment Committee (PIC) chairman, noted that a report by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics revealed a substantial decline in the number of employed Kenyans and reduced job opportunities. ODM now wants the containment measures eased and effective protocols adopted to spur economy like provision of personal protective equipment and strict hand hygiene.  Nassir moved the motion on Tuesday. “We’re deeply concerned that the frequent lock downs instituted by the Executive are a key cause of the underperforming economy despite the noble intention,” said Nassir. The party is also calling for mass vaccination that includes restriction of access to work premises by non-vaccinated employees among other interventions to stimulate economic recovery and national growth.  "The vaccine uptake is slow and needs to be greatly boosted for the country to climb out the current economic pit,” he added. Already, matatu operators have resumed full sitting capacity despite the surge in Covid-19 cases.    Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens  Wawaniaji wa nafasi ya Ugavana kaunti ya Mombasa kupitia chama cha ODM wajiandaa  ODM leader Raila Odinga says he will transform the public service to make it more responsive By Jacob Ngetich  | 9 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 9 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi | 20 hours ago By Allan Mungai & DPPS | 1 day ago