The grave where the two slain Kianjokoma brothers were buried. The family is now grieving their grandmother. [Muriithi Mugo, Standard]  Barely a week after the burial of the two slain Kianjokoma brothers, their family is yet again mourning the loss of their 94-year-old grandmother.  Felix Nthiga, the uncle and family spokesperson, said grandmother Gladys Embu was close to the boys and went mute when she learnt of the boys' demise.  "She was the only surviving grandmother and was very close to the boys. She was a strong woman but after the deaths, she would come to the homestead and never speak to anyone," Nthiga said at the family home in Kithangari village, about 500m from Kianjokoma market.  John Ndwiga, the father of the slain brothers, said their grandmother succumbed to high blood pressure caused by depression after learning of her grandsons' deaths.  Loneliness is eating your aged mother, not mental illness, court tells man  Let's address mental health illnesses with more seriousness  Concrete steps should be taken to address growing mental health issues  The lonely top: Many sportsmen battling depression silently Embu, who hailed from Kiandogo village, less than 2km from Kithangari, would walk to greet the family of the brothers.  Nthiga said the family will focus on giving her a befitting send-off set tomorrow before embarking on the legal journey to seek justice for the two slain brothers.  When we visited the family home, there was little activity, with the mother Catherine Wawira still grieving the loss of her two sons.  At around 7am, only the sound of the birds could be heard when we entered the home. To the left lies the grave of the two sons bearing their names - Emmanuel Mutura and Benson Njiru.  "It is hard for everyone here when we remember we were to have a lawyer and an engineer whose lives were cut short by people expected to protect them," Nthiga said.  Six police officers formerly working at Manyatta Police Station were detained by a Milimani court for 14 days as the investigations on the death of the two brothers continue.  The ODPP also recommended the suspension of two senior officers who were attached to Embu North Sub-county at the time of the incident.   Weekend Express 6th May 2016 Managing Depression  Did you know your lifestyle choice might be contributing to hypertension  YOUR HEALTH: Dealing with High Blood Pressure  By Lydiah Nyawira | 1 day ago By Jennifer Anyango | 3 days ago By Phares Mutembei | 4 days ago By Boniface Gikandi | 5 days ago