From left, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetangula, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and ANC's Musalia Mudavadi during the One Kenya Alliance press conference at Hermosa Garden Hotel in Karen, Nairobi. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  Three opposition principals yesterday embarked on a journey to build a new coalition that they hope will drive one of them to State House after formally exiting the National Super Alliance (Nasa).  Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetangula and Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka announced plans for an aggressive campaign of One Kenya Alliance (OKA).  The trio together with Kanu chairman and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi are OKA principals.    Fourth industrial revolution will be driven by technology – Raila  MP Junet insists he will defend his seat in 2022  Principals now scheme to make OKA formidable ahead of polls  I am not too old to lead Kenya, says Raila The leaders yesterday wrote to the Registrar of Political Parties Anne Nderitu on their decision to pull out of troubled Nasa.  The decision also isolates ODM leader Raila Odinga from his estranged coalition partners – who have accused him of reneging on some of the agreements they made just before the 2017 General Election.  The registrar is expected to ascertain that the withdrawal followed the right procedure. Yesterday, Ms Nderitu said she had received the documents.   “The three parties have formally filed their documents on their intention to exit. We have to go through them to determine if they have followed the coalition agreement and Political Parties Act,” she said.  “Relevant instruments giving effect to the decision have been processed by each party in accordance with their respective party constitutions. Today, each party has officially notified the Registrar of Political Parties of their decision to leave Nasa,” said the trio in a joint statement.  “In essence, NASA stands legally dissolved as of the agreement which states that upon withdrawal of three parties, the union stands dissolved,” added the statement read by Nambale MP Sakwa Bunyasi.  Kalonzo announced they were building a “colossal” coalition that will capture power when President Uhuru Kenyatta’s term ends.  He said they were open to working with other leaders to form the next government. “We have officially dissolved NASA and now ready, willing and geared towards forming a coalition that will carry the aspirations of all Kenyans: The One Kenya Alliance,” said the Wiper leader.  “We are going straight for the presidency. We are already working and we shall have a manifesto that every Kenyan will desire to read. We have no bitterness with anyone and we hope Kenyans will support our ambition,” added Kalonzo.  ODM leaders Raila Odinga. [Kelvin Karani, Standard]  Mudavadi said they will hit the road to campaign for OKA and invite others. “OKA is an open shop and we shall reach out to more people,” said Mudavadi.  President Kenyatta is said to be pulling strings behind the scenes to have all the opposition politicians unite to face Deputy President William Ruto. The ANC leader said Senator Gideon’s was absent from the event because it was meant for affiliates in Nasa.  “Having removed clutches of Nasa on our hands, we can now engage and actualise OKA. Serious work is ongoing, you will see this team moving across the country and giving Kenya a direction,” he said.  “As OKA, we will not drive with our eyes glued on the rear mirror. We can now freely engage and actualise the existence of OKA. As we start here we are happy that the dream has died and the dream has risen,” he added.  The Ford Kenya leader made the resolution even as a faction led by Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi and his Tongaren counterpart Eseli Simuyu asked the RPP to reject the notice since the party did not follow its constitution.  Dr Eseli said that he was the one who signed the Nasa coalition agreement and the party can only exit through his signature.  “The signatory to the coalition agreement is the secretary-general who is me, so when they decide to pull out without my signature what does that mean, he posed.  He, however, said that since ODM had also indicated plans to exit, rejection of Ford Kenya resolution will not stop the dissolution of the coalition.  “Ford Kenya decision is just for optics since ODM has also resolved to leave; So it will not make any difference,” said the MP.  The leaders said Nasa was formed in “response to the Kenyan people’s genuine desire for a nationwide, all-inclusive movement for real change.”  ODM leaders Raila Odinga. [Emmanuel Wanson, Standard]  They said the coalition was anchored on the cardinal principles of the rule of law, national unity and reconciliation, devolution of power, good governance, equity and social justice, which they said still remain critical issues in the country.  The three parties claimed that a series of events after Nasa boycotted the repeat 2017 presidential election exposed the cunning trait of ODM.  Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetangúla failed to attend the mock swearing-in of Raila as people’s president, a factor that triggered internal wrangles and political mistrust.  The trio have also accused ODM of refusing to share with them money from the political parties fund. Raila has since agreed to share Sh153 million to the four partners after years of contestation.  “Political party coalitions are built on trust. Once that trust is eroded, the partnership cannot survive. Mindful of this trust deficit, our three parties, transparently informed the Kenyan people of their individual decision to leave the Nasa,” said Bunyasi.  ODM’s National Executive Council last week also resolved to quit the coalition.  The party’s Secretary-General Edwin Sifuna said they will formally write to the RPP about the decision.   Three affiliate parties of NASA coalition have formally to ORPP officially exiting from it  Seneta Gideon Moi aelezea matumaini yake kuwa mahakama itatoa uamuzi bora kuhusu mchakato wa BBI  Muungano wa NASA umevunjika rasmi baada ya ANC, Wiper na Ford Kenya kutangaza kujiondoa kwao By Brian Otieno | 3 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich and Allan Mungai | 3 hours ago By Benard Sanga and Patrick Beja | 3 hours ago By Fidelis Kabunyi | 5 hours ago