Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Amani National Congress (ANC) parliamentarians want to ensure that the party scoops majority of the elective seats in Western Kenya in the next General Election.  Led by Matungu’s Peter Oscar Nabulindo, his Lugari counterpart Ayub Savula, Omboko Milemba (Emuhaya), and Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, the lawmakers have initiated a strategy that will see the six elective seats in every constituency filled by the party.  Nabulindo said it was time that the party showed its dominance in Western Kenya and urged voters from the region to elect those that will have the ANC’s ticket.    Court taps into customs, denies siblings right to bury their own mother  Man of books who sits on both sides of the world  Arteta reacts to Arsenal's 5-0 defeat to Man City  'He is a good manager' - Guardiola defends under-pressure Arteta “The next election will be crucial to our party and its dominance in the region and that is why we have started an early drive to educate voters on the need of joining our party,” said Nabulindo.  Nabulindo added that for his party leader Musalia Mudavadi to succeed in his quest for the presidency in 2022, all the elective seats in the counties of Kakamega, Vihiga, Busia, and Bungoma ought to be occupied by his party.  “Next year, we will be asking our voters to vote in a six-piece format,” said Nabulindo.  After the 2017 elections, ANC was the fourth largest in Parliament, winning three seats in the Senate and fourteen in the National Assembly but had no governor.  The party reaped big in Kakamega County by scooping five National Assembly seats out of the 12 in addition to the Senate seat.  In Vihiga, the party won three out of five parliamentary seats, in addition to the senatorial and woman representative seats.  In the Kakamega County Assembly, the party got 19 members.   Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao  Muungano wa NASA umevunjika rasmi baada ya ANC, Wiper na Ford Kenya kutangaza kujiondoa kwao  Raila Odinga has given the clearest indication yet that he is ready to work with One Kenya Alliance By Kamau Ngotho | 17 seconds ago By Sunday Standard team | 30 minutes ago By Oscar Obonyo and Julius Chepkwony | 1 hour ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 2 hours ago