High Court in Nairobi has barred the police from interfering with the affairs of the Law Society of Kenya (LSK) or accessing its Gitanga Road offices save for investigations and maintaining law and order.  Justice Antony Mrima in his directions today also allowed sprinter council members, President Nelson Havi and his deputy Carolyne Kamende to have unfettered access to the office after a chaotic session witnessed two weeks ago.  “The second, third and fourth respondents are hereby restrained from entering or interfering with affairs of LSK. However, the respondents shall have unhindered access when circumstances require restoration of order,” he ruled.  Havi sued the police saying he had been instructed by LSK to act for it.  In an escalation of the circus, Mr Wambugu/Chege Advocates filed a note of appointment, replacing Havi by the same lobby and sought to withdraw the case.  Owing to the two, Havi and Wambugu, asserting that they represent the society, the judge directed that they file their side of the story for consideration.  How Sh12 billion World Bank loan has helped many access justice  LSK boss challenges petition to have him declared unfit to hold office  LSK: Government is retaliating by interfering with our functions  Lawyers’ society biggest shame in Kenya’s post-devolution history  According to the judge, he could not terminate the case saying that it was filed out of public interest.  “I am aware the parties are yet to file their submissions and Mr Wambugu/Chege Advocates to replace Nelson Havi and applied to withdraw the petitioner.  Withdrawing a constitution petition is not just a walk in the park,” said Justice Mrima.  Justice Mrima was however of the view that Havi cannot represent the society. This is a sentiment he ruled on in yet another case on LSK wars filed by Boniface Akusala and Collins Odhiambo.  The duo sued LSK, Havi, Kamende, Herine Akoth, Esther Ang’awa. Bernhard Ngetich, Aluso Aileen, George Omwansa, Beth Michoma, Faith Odhiambo, Carolyne Muthiani, Damaric Ndinda and Linda Riziki.  In the case, LSK again had two groups arguing they were representing it. Havi Kamende, Herine Akoth and Ang’awa were in one group while Allamano and Associates were in the other.  The judge struck out the notices presented by Havi and Allamano and Company advocates and ordered that the chairpersons of LSK branches in Kenya appoint advocates to represent the society.   He was of the view that neither the president nor Allamano had produced a resolution from a properly convened council. At the same time, he said LSK CEO Mercy Wambua cannot make the appointment as she is also at the heart of the wrangles.  The judge ruled that the Nairobi branch LSK chairperson would be the one to convene a meeting to discuss the appointment within 21 days.  Today, the judge said he still holds similar sentiments.  “On one hand, there was the president and Mr Wambugu. As this court had earlier on directed on representations. I have expressed myself on E60, 2021 and I still hold that petition,” he ruled.   Lawyer files an affidavit seeking removal DPP Tobiko from office  Law Society of Kenya to freeze its assets in the troubled Chase Bank, says vice chair Faith Waigwa  Erick Mutua has asked IEBC to allow cord to access documents By Jael Mboga | 3 hours ago By  James Wanzala  | 1 day ago By Jacinta Mutura and Iman Masud | 1 day ago By Kevine Omollo  | 1 day ago