The late Aga Khan Hospital nurse, Caroline Mwenesi. [Courtesy]  Caroline Mwenesi, a 53-year-old nurse at the Aga Khan Hospital in Kisumu, died of a medical procedure-related cause, an autopsy has revealed.  In an autopsy report by Dr Dixon Mchana, Mwenesi’s bladder was empty and her brain was damaged.  “The spine was under pressure while in the MRI machine which blocked oxygen supply to the brain leading to suffocation,” Mchana stated in the report. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey.   Daughter: We carried tea and bread for my mom after scan, but she never made it  Suspect in false social media post on CS Matiang’i detained for two days  If you lock up people and reopen after two weeks you will have done nothing — Prof Lukoye Atwoli  Virus drug trials begin at Nairobi’s Aga Khan hospital The National Nurses Association of Kenya (NNAK) had raised an alarm following Mwenesi’s death, saying they suspected foul play.  According to her daughter Lavender Allivister, her mother was worried and hesitant about the MRI procedure that had been recommended to her.  “She told one of the doctors that her oxygen levels normally drop but the doctor assured her that all was well,” Lavender said, adding that her mother lost her life after the MRI scan on July 30.  “Medics compelled her to undergo a procedure which they knew endangered her life; either way, she was unwilling,” said Eliud Kidake, cousin to Mwenesi.  The family now plans to seek legal redress as they accuse the hospital of medical negligence that led to her death.  Aga Khan Hospital management was unavailable for comment over the death, as key officials were said to be attending a funeral mass for Mwenesi.    Dr. Amolo who was stabbed by his son passes on  Your Health: Ways of Contracting Hepatitis on Morning Express 27th April 2017  Survey: Kenyan youth are corruptible despite the fact that 85% of those polled are deeply religious By James Omoro | 17 hours ago By James Omoro | 22 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 1 day ago By Joackim Bwana | 1 day ago