The number of people who died after consuming suspected poisoned liquor in Hodi Hodi area of Bahati, Nakuru County, has risen to eight.  County Health Department Chief Officer Daniel Wainaina confirmed that three other people died on Wednesday morning. Dr Wainaina said 15 people were suspected to have consumed the liquor on Sunday evening.   "The first person succumbed on Monday while four others died on Tuesday," said Dr Wainaina.   The four were among the seven people who had been taken to Maili Kumi Sub-county Hospital after they developed complications.  Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey.   Five dead in Nakuru after drinking illicit brew, 12 in hospital  Standoff at Nakuru college over suspended exams   Kenya Breweries boss seeks review of turnover tax on businesses  Firstborns should marry lastborns, middle children "Three others were admitted at the facility, among them two men and a woman. They were stabilised, but on Tuesday night their condition worsened," said Dr Wainaina.   He said the patients were referred to Nakuru Level Five Hospital at night. "The woman died along the way. Her husband and another man succumbed at Maili Kumi Hospital."   The tragedy has left the residents in panic, prompting the county government to deploy public health officers to the area to search for the unaccounted persons.   "The officers have traced two people and are being attended to at Nakuru Level Five Hospital,” said Wainaina.  A detective who sought anonymity said samples of the liquor has been taken to the government laboratory in Kisumu to establish the type of poison used to contaminate it. Maili Kumi Sub-county Hospital Medical Superintendent Kennedy Owino said that the patients were unable to speak when they were taken to the facility.   “It is their relatives who gave scanty details about what had transpired,” said Dr Owino.   Joseph Kimondo, a survivor, said he was concerned after he started losing sight.   “I can see you, but I can't clearly identify you,” Kimondo said.  Kimondo could not certainly explain the specific drink which he drunk with his friends.   Kimani Ngunjiri: wabunge wa upinzani walikosea kumzomea rais Kenyatta  Mshindi wa kwanza wa mchezo wa bahati nasibu- Betway, atuzwa  Naibu Rais William Ruto amewasili Hague kuhudhuria kikao cha kupata mwelekeo  By Daniel Chege  | 55 minutes ago By Stephen Rutto | 9 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 9 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 15 hours ago