Slain Kianjokoma Brothers laid to rest in one grave on August 13, 2021.[Courtesy]  As the family and friends of the late Emmanuel Mutura and Benson Ndigwa come to terms with the brutal deaths of their kin, the power of social media in seeking justice for the two is quickly gaining momentum.  The  #JusticeForKianjokomaBrothers has gained traction with Kenyans from all walks of life speaking up to condemn the killings and calling for accountability for their deaths.    They say better late than never, politicians and influencers have stepped in to amplify the swell of the chorus, demanding justice. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey.   Mr Mutyambai, get to bottom of police brutality  Woman cries for justice after elders thrashed her  How four relatives met their death in Kajiado  Sierra Leone-born judge picked to hear lawyer Paul Gicheru’s case at The Hague On Friday, Opposition leader Raila Odinga broke his silence on the matter, taking on his social media platforms to console the family and identify himself with accountability demands.  “To the Ndwiga family that has sadly had to bury their sons Emmanuel and Benson today, my sincere condolences. My prayers go to their mother Catherine Wawira. I stand with you in this grief as a parent. No parent should ever go through the torment the Ndwigas are undergoing,” he said in a tweet.   He said if the criminal justice system ever works, “it must for this family. I join and endorse the call for #Justice For Kianjokoma Brothers.”  Law Society of Kenya (LSK) President Nelson Havi and his deputy Caroline Kamende not only rallied people on social media to demand justice but also attended the burial in Embu.  “Innocent lives: Benson Njiru Ndwiga, an engineer, and Emmanuel Mutura Ndwiga, a lawyer cut short by police officers. Kariuki Kihara, Fred Matiang’i, and Hillary Mutyambai should resign or be fired if the killers are not charged. #JusticeForKianjokomaBrothers,” he tweeted.   Celebrities led by Fena Gitu joined the fray. “From Kianjokoma Brothers to the Kitengela murders of innocent young Kenyans, Fauzi’s bro, and all the many cases... I can’t even begin to fathom the pain and fear. What does justice even look like! God save us,”  Her colleague Femi One lyrically wept: “This story gets sadder and sadder as they are laid down to rest today. My heart goes out to their families and friends. This needs to stop …as a Kenyan citizen, paza sauti yako Let’s stand up against injustices …could be you tomorrow, your brother/sister /friend. Justice for Kianjokoma brothers #stoppolicebrutality”   Human rights groups led by Amnesty Kenya were not left behind: “As the Ndwiga brothers’ funeral comes to an end, we call on everyone to continue standing with this family and demand justice.  All eyes must remain on the office of the Independent Police Oversight Authority and Ministry of Interior and the Inspector General of police until we have #JusticeForKianjokomaBrothers   In a statement released on Twitter by the Police Reforms Working Group in Kenya (PRWG-K), the independent Medical-legal unit received 25 cases of extrajudicial executions and 43 cases of torture and ill-treatment as a result of enforcement of Covid-19 regulations.   The group further called upon the Inspector General of police to enforce the sixth schedule of the National Police Service Act to which requires police officers to provide medical assistance when serious injury results from the use of force; and obligates officers to report to superiors and IPOA when death and serious injuries result from their actions.  “The law makes failure to do so a criminal offence which investigators, IPOA, ODPP, and the judiciary should begin enforcing,” the statement read.  During the burial service of the two brothers on Friday, Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi challenged Members of Parliament to disband police agencies that performed dismally in their work.  “IPOA had assured to come up with a report in one week which is already gone. I wonder what kind of investigations are needed when the police know the officers who were on patrol. The person who pulled the trigger on the peaceful demonstrator must have reported to his seniors as per the police standing orders,” Muturi said.  The Speaker, who hails from Embu county, vowed that the leaders would not stop or keep quiet until justice was done for the two brothers. Moses Kuria, the Gatundu MP, asked residents to jam the streets and social media until justice was done by taking the concerned officers behind bars.  Havi, the LSK President, threatened to lead more than 2,000 lawyers to a peaceful protest in Kianjokoma and also assist the family in seeking justice. He said the cops involved must be arraigned in court, held liable, and compensation for the loss of lives of the young men made.  Eric Muchangi, the area MP said residents of Kianjokoma would take to the streets again if no action will be taken after seven days.   #JusticeForKianjokomaBrothers. May God in his special way comfort Ndwiga’s family,” Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen tweeted.   newsdesk@standardmedia.co.ke   Covid and Justice: Resolution of cases in courts has dropped by 53 percent  Former CJ David Maraga faults president Uhuru for rejecting the appoinment of six judges  "I will simply be a Chief Justice who would... administer nothing but pure law," SC Fred Ngatia By Jael Mboga | 10 hours ago By Kamau Ngotho | 11 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 12 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 13 hours ago