Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga (left) awards NCPB Managing Director Joseph Kimote ISO 9001:2015 certification. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  The Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) has exonerated itself from any blame in the banning of the 27 maize flour brands, maintaining due process was followed before going public.  Bernard Njiraini, the Kebs managing director said letters were sent to manufacturers informing them to withdraw products from the market for failing to meet the set requirement.    Speaking at an event to mark the National Cereals and Produce Board’s (NCPB) ISO: 9001:2015 in Nairobi yesterday, Njiraini said while the aflatoxin level requirement for maize is 10 parts per billion (ppb), there were instances of 100 ppb in the flours that were banned.  Regulator warns of 27 harmful flour brands  KRA impounds illegally imported energy drinks worth Sh1.5m  Inside intricate multi-billion shilling trade in counterfeit alcoholic drinks   40 new privacy standards approved as cybercrime cases soar 50 per cent “We did the letters to manufacturers, telling them that they have not met this requirement, and withdraw the products,” said Njiraini.  The Cereal Millers Association had protested that Kebs did not reach out to the affected firms before going public. Joseph Kimote, the NCPB managing director said Effective Quality Management System will assist the agency up performance, efficiency and customer satisfaction.  He said there were over 700,000 bags of maize free from aflatoxins. “This maize is well-graded and sorted out. We want to invite anyone willing to buy it to visit NCPB facilities across the country,” said Kimote.    Shirika linalosimamia ubora wa bidhaa nchini KEBS lapiga marufuku vileo 367   KEBS suspends licenses of 367 brands in the country  Mamia ya wakulima waandamana nje ya mabohari ya NCPB By Graham Kajilwa | 40 minutes ago By Macharia Kamau | 6 hours ago By Macharia Kamau | 19 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 1 day ago What to do with Ruto? Uhuru's dilemma and why spat with DP is written in history