Kenya Airways (KQ) aircraft at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA, Nairobi. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  Three out of 12 Kenyans stuck in Afghanistan have been evacuated, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs says.  One arrived in the country on Wednesday, while two others are expected to land on Thursday evening, August 19.  The Kenyan Government said the 12 citizens were working for international organisations in the foreign nation. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. “Through diplomatic channels, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wrote to the concerned organisations with a clear request to evacuate stranded Kenyans as a matter of urgency,” the ministry said.  12 Kenyans evacuated from Afghanistan as three still in Kabul  Olympics: Afghan IOC member seeks US help to evacuate female athletes  Several killed in flag-waving protests against Taliban in Afghanistan  Former Afghan women's captain tells players to burn kits, delete photos   Kenya has no diplomatic relations nor accreditation in Afghanistan, but has reached out to its allies closer to the Middle-East nation, to gather more information on any of its citizens stranded therein.  “The Ministry of Foreign Affairs through the Kenya High Commission in Islamabad, Pakistan which is the nearest Mission to Afghanistan has reached out to our allies to get information of any stranded Kenyans and prospects of evacuation,” it added.  Earlier in the week, Foreign Affairs Principal Secretary Amb. Macharia Kamau told local media that Kenyans working in Afghanistan will be evacuated by their employers.  “The country has been unstable for a long while, and we do not expect Kenyans to have gone to this country,” he said in an interview with Daily Nation.  The Taliban took control of Afghanistan, capturing major cities and occupying the presidential palace. President Ashraf Ghani fled the country as the insurgents entered Kabul virtually unopposed, saying he wanted to avoid bloodshed.  Thousands are still fleeing the capital Kabul as several Western nations continue to evacuate their citizens.   Women without the cut is a project aimed at increasing awareness on female genital mutilation  Voliboli cha kina dada Kenya yatarajiwa kuonyesha umahiri wao katika fainali dhihi ya Algeria.  Kenyans intending to work in foreign countries to register with the ministry of foreign affairs By Brian Okoth | 24 minutes ago By Betty Njeru | 55 minutes ago By The Standard | 4 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 5 hours ago