Dickson Mararo is accused of shooting and injuring two police officers and a woman on July 2 in Kasarani. [File, Standard]  Dickson Mararo, the suspect accused of shooting two police officers and a waitress at Quiver Lounge in Kasarani, Nairobi on July 2, has been released on Sh5 million cash bail or Sh10 million bond.  The Milimani Law Courts Principal Magistrate Esther Kimilu, while releasing the suspect on bond or bail, warned him against interfering with witnesses, directly or through proxies.  Mararo’s firearm, a Glock pistol, will remain confiscated until the case is determined.  The Prosecution had earlier asked the court not to free the suspect on bond because one of his alleged victims, Festus Musyoka, was still undergoing treatment at the Nairobi Hospital’s intensive care unit.  Musyoka’s medical bill has thus far accumulated to Sh5.7 million, said the Prosecution.  According to the State prosecutor, the investigating officer handling the case was yet to record Musyoka’s statement.  The Prosecution further claimed Mararo’s other alleged victim, Felistas Nzisa, a waitress at Quiver Lounge, has been detained at Mediheal Hospital in Nairobi over unsettled medical bill.  Help us improve our website! “Your honour, we are also urging the court to order Mararo to surrender his passport,” the State prosecutor, Evelyn Onunga, said.  Magistrate Kimilu said witnesses will be placed under protection.  Mararo is represented by lawyer Cliff Ombeta while his alleged victims, Festus Musyoka, Felistas Nzisa and Lawrence Muturi, are represented by Makueni Member of Parliament Dan Maanzo.  Mararo had been detained at the Industrial Area Remand Prison for 15 days.  While ordering his detention on July 23, Magistrate Kimilu said the move would allow the State to place witnesses under protection.  The court heard that Mararo, who is facing attempted murder charges, shot and injured his three victims at Quiver Lounge on the night of July 2.  Mararo’s lawyer, Cliff Ombeta, said his client shot at the police officers “in self-defense” after they had provoked him.   By Jael Mboga | 3 days ago By Collins Kweyu | 6 days ago By Josphat Thiongó | 7 days ago By Brian Obuya | 8 days ago