Deputy President William Ruto in Nakuru on August 23, 2021.   The office of the Deputy President has written to the Inspector General of Police, seeking an official explanation on the withdrawal of his security.  General Service Unit (GSU) officers guarding DP William Ruto's official residence have been withdrawn and replaced by Administration Police officers.  The AP officers arrived at the DP's Karen residence in two vans and had a meeting with their GSU counterparts before heading to Ruto's Hardy home for a similar exercise.  This morning, the DP was briefed by the security officer in charge of the General Service Unit attached to his official residence in Karen that he had received verbal instructions to withdraw all GSU officers effective 2pm.   The grey areas in Prezzo UK quest for successor to secure his legacy  DP William Ruto’s GSU security withdrawn, replaced by AP officers  Come clean on Sh15b Aydin loan, a section of leaders to Ruto  Uhuru Raila vs Bottom Up But in a rejoinder, the National Police Service spokesperson, Bruno Shioso, said the change is a normal reassignment of duties within the police service to enhance efficiency.  "The Presidential Escort Unit continues to provide close protection security to the DP," he said.  The withdrawal extends to all of DP William Ruto's residences. In a statement, his office said no explanation has been offered for the “strange and unlawful” decision.  “The decision has been made contrary to Police Serving Standing Orders, Chapter 8 Section 5€, that the GSU commandant shall be responsible for the security of the President, the Deputy President, State houses and lodges,” the statement said.  The statement from the DP's office added that this is the latest installment in a "sustained and systematic effort to undermine" the Deputy President's personal security in pursuit of political vendetta.  "...it is consistent with a strategy to expose the DP to personal harm," said the statement signed by the DP's office secretary for communication David Mugonyi.  He cited January 2020, when government officials acting with authority locked the DP out of his official residence in Mombasa, which remains locked to date.  On Tuesday, the statement adds, armed police officers violently dispersed mourners, damaged property and disrupted the funeral of an MCA in Taita Taveta ahead of the DP's arrival.  [This story is being updated]   Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana  DP William Ruto has been stopped from travelling to Uganda where he was headed for a private visit  Wabunge 3 Tana River washinikiza wananchi kumuunga mkono Naibu Rais William Ruto | MBIU YA KTN (2) By Elvince Joshua | 3 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 3 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 6 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 18 hours ago What to do with Ruto? Uhuru's dilemma and why spat with DP is written in history