Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi says there is nothing like a 'front runner' in next year’s presidential contest.  Speaking in Likuyani on Wednesday, Mudavadi said no politician, including those seeking to succeed President Kenyatta, should think they have an upper hand over others.  “You will be surprised my friend. No politician is indispensable. I will go for the presidency and hopefully bag the seat,” he said when asked whether he could trounce Deputy President William Ruto without the backing of former Prime Minister Raila Odinga.  Mudavadi, who attended the funeral mass for Major General (Rtd) George Agoi, vowed not to back any presidential candidate in the 2022 polls. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. “Those I have been backing should now return the favour. I will be on the ballot,’’ he said.  Did Raila snub Kalonzo, Mudavadi after Uhuru Mombasa talks?  Uhuru meets Raila, One Kenya Alliance leaders at State House- Mombasa  Without Nasa, can Raila still command support in regions?  Mudavadi's tough task of picking ANC flagbearer in race to succeed Oparanya The ANC leader said the meeting Uhuru hosted in Mombasa on Tuesday attended by opposition leaders Raila (ODM), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Moses Wetang’ula (Ford-K) and Gideon Moi (Kanu) and himself had nothing to do with 2022 politics.  “Many could obviously distort the facts to mean it was about crafting of a political alliance. Far from it. We discussed matters of common good for our nation and a press release to that effect was sent out,” he said.  Mudavadi said the meeting featured discussions on the economy, peace and justice for Kenyans with nothing to do with a 2022 alliance.  The Amani leader said he is keen on ensuring his supporters register as voters in large numbers.  Mudavadi, at the same time, regretted that IEBC’s gazettement of the campaign spending limits for next year’s candidates was outrageous and undemocratic.  “Leadership should not be reduced to a battle of money but that of ideas. How will a young man without money feel when reading the figures IEBC is putting under the law? Such laws could as well mean elective seats be reserved for the rich,” he said.  He was accompanied by Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi and a local MCAs.  “With numbers, we will push our son (Musalia) to be the fifth president of the Republic of Kenya. He has all it takes and he’s the only candidate with the heart and ability to revive the dwindling economic fortunes of the nation,” said Malala.  The senator said ANC supporters would not “offer Musalia to play second fiddle” to those who have been depending on his backing every election cycle.  Agoi said it was tiring for Mudavadi to back other candidates with nothing new to offer.  ANC chairman Kelvin Lunani feared that Kenya was headed the wrong direction and needed an able leader like Mudavadi to make a difference.      Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao  Musalia Mudavadi embarks on his charm offensive in the coast region ahead of the 2022 elections  Wanasiasa wa Magharibi mwa Kenya wakeleleka kuhusi mauwaji wa Jacob Juma By Chris Thairu | 9 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 9 hours ago By Peterson Githaiga | 16 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 1 day ago