Jimmy Wanjigi spoke after a church service in Nakuru West constituency, Nakuru County. [File, Standard]  Businessman cum politician Jimmy Wanjigi has said he will run for the office of the president as a demonstration of how democracy works in the country.  Speaking at PCEA church Ndarugu, Nakuru West constituency, Wanjigi said he would run against ODM Leader Raila Odinga despite being his close ally.  “Raila is my great friend, I will run against him to show Kenyans how democracy works in this country. We will compete and make sure the election is free and fair,” he remarked.  Wanjigi expressed great confidence that he would win next year’s polls to become the head of state if the election is fairly conducted adding it was time for fresh leaders to take the mantle of the country’s national politics.  Cleric declares interest in 2022 presidential race  Ghati dumps senatorial bid after Court of Appeal verdict   Nyanza leaders: We are now focusing on 2022  44-year-old teacher who wants to be country's next president  Months ago, Wanjigi joined the crowded presidential race to run against Deputy President William Ruto, ODM Leader Raila Odinga, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka, Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, Dr Mukhisa Kituyi among other aspirants.  “This time I shall not be king making. I shall address the rest of your questions at the appropriate juncture,” Wanjigi said.  Mr Wanjigi is a shrewd political strategist credited with successfully pairing President Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto and their accession to power in 2013.  The billionaire was also behind ODM leader Raila Odinga’s 2017 campaign strategy under the National Super Alliance (NASA).   Exploring the preparedness and the key timeliness of the IEBC to conduct the 2022 General Elections  Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens  Wawaniaji wa nafasi ya Ugavana kaunti ya Mombasa kupitia chama cha ODM wajiandaa By Jael Mboga | 1 hour ago By Wainaina Ndung'u | 16 hours ago By Philip Mwakio | 21 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 21 hours ago