The Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji at his office along Lenana Road, Nairobi. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  The Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Haji has directed police boss Hillary Mutyambai to suspend former Embu North OCPD Emily Ngaruya and Manyatta OCS Abdullahi Yaya, over alleged involvement in the deaths of two Embu brothers.  In a letter to the Inspector General of Police, Haji stated: “I hereby direct that you immediately arrest and arraign in court all suspects involved, pending investigations by IPOA to avoid any interference with evidence or intimidation of witnesses.  “I also direct further investigations be carried out in the role of the OCPD and the OCS, and recommend that they be suspended from duty,” he added. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. Ngaruya had earlier denied allegations that law enforcement officers killed the brothers, who died while in police custody at Kianjokoma, Embu County.  Ngaruiya and Yaya have since been replaced as Sub-County Police Commander and Officer Commanding Station respectively, on orders of Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG) Edward Mbugua.  The two are accused of negligence after the brothers were allegedly killed by police.  On Tuesday, August 17, court allowed police to detain six officers implicated in the deaths of brothers Benson Njiru and Emmanuel Mutura for 14 days pending investigations.  The six were arraigned at the Milimani Law Courts in Nairobi.  The officers were on Monday suspended to pave way for further probe into the deaths of the two brothers.  Police IG Mutyambai said the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA) had concluded investigations into the matter and forwarded the file to the DPP.  "I assure you that justice for the Kianjokoma brothers will be served, but this can only be done if we allow the proper due process to take place with concrete evidence that can stand a trial in court," Mutyambai tweeted.     By Hudson Gumbihi | 1 hour ago By Brian Otieno | 1 hour ago By Paul Ogemba | 1 hour ago By Kamau Muthoni | 4 hours ago