Ambassador of China to the United Nations Chen Xu attends a session of the Human Rights Council at the United Nations in Geneva, Switzerland, on February 24, 2020. [Reuters]  China's envoy to the U.N. in Geneva said on Tuesday that the U.S. Army and the militaries of other coalition partners should be held accountable for alleged rights violations they committed in Afghanistan.  "The US, UK, Australia and other countries must be held accountable for the violation of human rights committed by their military in Afghanistan and the evolution of this current session should cover this issue," China's ambassador Chen Xu told an emergency session of the Human Rights Council on Afghanistan.  "Under the banner of democracy and human rights the US and other countries carry out military interventions in other sovereign states and impose their own model on countries with vastly different history and culture," he said, saying this brought "great suffering".  Armed members of the Taliban kept people desperate to flee Afghanistan from reaching Kabul's airport on Wednesday, witnesses said, while President Joe Biden vowed to keep U.S. troops in the country until all Americans are evacuated.  Editorial: Business in Kabul  Afghanistan, America and the folly of being dragged into endless wars  What next for Afghanistan after disastrous US exit  Just like in Vietnam, US Afghanistan mission has ended in ignominy Since the Taliban entered Kabul over the weekend, scenes of chaos have unfolded as thousands seek to leave, fearing a return to the austere interpretation of Islamic law imposed during the previous Taliban rule that ended 20 years ago.  "Everyone wants out," said a member of an Afghan family after it arrived in Germany. "Every day is worse than the day before. We saved ourselves but we couldn't rescue our families."  Witnesses said Taliban members prevented people from getting into the airport compound, including those with the necessary documents to travel.  "It's a complete disaster. The Taliban were firing into the air, pushing people, beating them with AK47s," said one person who was trying to get through.  A Taliban official said commanders and soldiers had fired into the air to disperse crowds outside Kabul airport, but told Reuters: "We have no intention to injure anyone."  As the airlift of Western citizens and Afghans who worked for foreign governments sought to ramp up, Biden said U.S. forces would remain until the evacuation of Americans was finished, even if that meant staying past the Aug. 31 U.S. deadline for complete withdrawal.  The president, who has faced criticism about the U.S. departure, said the chaos was inevitable. Asked in an interview with ABC News if the exit of U.S. troops could have been handled better, Biden said: "No. ... The idea that somehow, there's a way to have gotten out without chaos ensuing, I don't know how that happens."   Siku ya mwisho kwa mataifa ulimwenguni kuhamia mfumo wa dijitali lawadia  Deputy President William Ruto has challenges African nations to develop business synergies   Siku ya mwisho kwa mataifa ulimwenguni kuhamia mfumo wa dijitali lawadia By Reuters | 2 days ago By Standard Reporter | 3 days ago By Jael Mboga | 4 days ago By Reuters | 5 days ago