Ronald Sagurani died on Tuesday, August 17, while undergoing treatment at Pandya Hospital in Mombasa. [File, Standard]  Minority Leader in Taita Taveta County Assembly, Ronald Sagurani, has died.  Sagurani died on Tuesday, August 17 while undergoing treatment at Pandya Hospital in Mombasa, County Assembly Speaker Meshack Maganga has told The Standard.  It is reported the lawmaker died of Covid-19. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. The deceased becomes the fourth MCA in Taita Taveta County to die in office in the last two years.  Sagurani was elected to represent Mahoo Ward in the County Assembly on a Jubilee Party ticket. He was serving a second term in office.  President Uhuru Kenyatta, in his eulogy, described the late MCA as a “progressive and dedicated leader”.  “His commitment to improving the lives of wananchi at the grassroots endeared him to many, propelling him to be elected twice to represent Mahoo Ward,” said the President.  Taita Taveta County Assembly session was on Wednesday morning, August 18, filled with grief as MCAs mourned their late colleague.  Majority Leader in the County Assembly Harris Keke, Deputy Speaker Chrispus Tondoo and Deputy Majority Leader Abraham Juma described the late Sagurani as a “devoted statesman”.  “Sagurani was a sincere person, who spoke his mind,” said Nominated MCA Frank Mmare.  Mmare further observed that it was “strange” for a County Assembly to lose four members in less than two years. He suggested on Tuesday that the Assembly should hold special prayers.  In April 2021, Taita Taveta County Assembly lost Nominated ODM MCA, Joyce Mwangoji, to Covid-19.  In March 2020, the only elected female MCA in Taita Taveta County in the 2017 General Election, Beatrice Mwabili, died of gallbladder cancer while receiving treatment in Nairobi.  Another Nominated ODM MCA, Anastazia Wakesho, died of breast cancer in December 2019 after a four-year battle.   By Willis Oketch | 1 hour ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 17 hours ago By Joackim Bwana and Willis Oketch | 1 day ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 1 day ago