Bishop Zablon Mbugua. [Kennedy Gachuhi, Standard]  As the country gears towards the next General Election, religious groups have continued to express commitment to actively get involved in forming and shaping the next government.  At a consultative meeting with Muslim and Christian leaders, Zablon Mbugua, a bishop at the Biblical Pentecostal Apostolic Church, declared his interest to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta come 2022.  The man of cloth on Saturday unveiled his Divine Movement for Leadership in Kenya party, which he intends to register ahead of the August 2022 polls.  “As members of different faith, we now have this platform of shared values for restorative change. The clergy must now rise to give the country direction where politicians have failed,” said Bishop Mbugua.  Ruto sustains his attacks on Uhuru and Raila after BBI fall  44-year-old teacher who wants to be country's next president   Editorial: Battle royale  No campaigns in churches, bishops now tell aspirants The cleric has picked a Muslim as his running mate.  Bishop Zablon Mbugua (seated) has declared interest in the presidency. [Kennedy Gachuhi, Standard]  While calling for support for his candidature and his running mate, Mohammed Karama, Mbugua emphasized the need for Kenyans to evaluate the integrity of people they elect.  He said lack of ethical values among elected leaders was to blame for most of the challenges facing the country.  “We must begin by electing people who will rid this country of runaway corruption and toxic ethnicity,” he said.  The cleric said corruption had continued to hamper investments by Kenyans and foreigners, leaving numerous opportunities underutilised even as Kenyans wallow in joblessness.  At the same time, Dr Karama dismissed talks of a revolution pitting the rich against the poor.   Exploring the preparedness and the key timeliness of the IEBC to conduct the 2022 General Elections  HOUSE OF CARDS: Is the State secretly engineering plot to have a compromise candidate succeed Uhuru?  Rais Uhuru Kenyatta adai kuwa Kenya ipo tayari kwa mashindano ya WRC By Kennedy Gachuhi | 6 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 7 hours ago By James Munyeki | 8 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 1 day ago