Emmanuel Mutura (L) and Benson Njiru (R) went missing on Sunday, August 1, and were found dead on Tuesday, August 3. [Muriithi Mugo, Standard]  The Deputy Inspector-General of Police Edward Mbugua has recommended the transfer of Embu North Sub-County Police Commander Emily Ngaruiya following uproar over mysterious deaths of two brothers.  Benson Njiru, 22, and Emmanuel Mutura, 19, were arrested for allegedly flouting the 10pm-4am curfew on Sunday, August 1, outside their family shop in Kianjokoma shopping centre.  On Tuesday, August 3, the siblings’ bodies were found at the Embu Level 5 Hospital morgue. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. The deceased’s uncle, Felix Nthiga, claimed Njiru and Mutura were arrested by police officers attached to Manyatta station.  Mystery of brothers arrested on Sunday, bodies found in morgue on Tuesday DIG Edward Mbugua (R) visited the Embu brothers' family on Friday, August 6. [Muriithi Mugo, Standard]  Family said the boys’ bodies were found at Kibungu shopping centre, 10 kilometres from where they had been arrested on Sunday night.  The siblings’ father, John Ndwiga, said he “was certain” police were responsible for his children’s deaths.  “I viewed their bodies and I could tell they were physically assaulted. Their faces were swollen and had bruises,” he told The Standard on Tuesday.  Embu North Sub-County Police Commander, Emily Ngaruiya, however, denied allegations that law enforcement officers killed the duo.  “A postmortem will reveal the truth,” she said, adding that the boys died after jumping off a moving police van.    Her remarks sparked protests in Embu, where police used live bullets on Thursday to disperse crowds, blocking roads for a second day. One person died during the melee.  A postmortem conducted on Thursday indicated that Njiru and Mutura died of multiple head and rib injuries.  Pathologist Kamau Wangari said Mutura's head was deformed and bore bruises in the face while Njiru’s ribs had been broken. Dr. Wangari also said that Njiru's brain had an injury.  DIG Mbugua on Friday, August 6, visited the deceased’s family in Kithangari Village in Embu North Sub-County, where he condoled with the boys’ parents.  Mbugua pledged to ensure the transfer of Embu North Sub-County Police Commander Emily Ngaruiya and Manyatta OCS Abdulahi Yaya.  Embu North Sub-County Police Commander Emily Ngaruiya. [Standard]  Mbugua instructed the Eastern Regional Police Commander John Mwivanda to transfer Ngaruiya and Yaya to the regional headquarters, where they will work from pending investigations.  The deputy inspector-general of police also ordered that motorcycles confiscated during the Thursday protests be released to their owners.  Mbugua further asked the residents to reveal names of “rogue” police officers so that they (officers) can be deployed to his office, where he’ll personally monitor them.   By Muriithi Mugo | 17 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 2 days ago By Brian Okoth | 7 days ago By  Stephen Nzioka  | 9 days ago