Samuel Atandi and Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga. [File, Standard]  Alego Usonga MP Samuel Atandi has lashed out at Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga over his plans to run for a parliamentary seat.  During a public function in Gem Sub-county, Mr Atandi told the governor to shelve his ambitions to compete with him in 2022.  He instead asked him to focus on national politics and help the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leader Raila Odinga to seek for votes for the presidency. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey.   Race to succeed Siaya Governor Rasanga gathers pace with aspirants weighing in  Usenge rises from tiny fish selling township to vibrant trade centre  Photos: Tears and pain as Siaya tanker explosion victims are buried  Gem chief who forced parents to take children to school “I would urge you to go and help Raila to campaign for presidency just like Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has opted to do. Don’t fall for people’s lies asking you to compete with me,” said Atandi.  He further asked the governor to be brave enough and make a public announcement on his intentions.  But Rasanga told the MP to focus on seeking votes to defend his seat. The governor said he will not be forced by anyone to declare his intentions.  “It is upon the people of Alego to decide who is their next MP. If they feel I have done the best with the governor position and that I can represent them in parliament, then that is it,” Rasanga said.  Last Friday, Rasanga was meeting elders from Kakan in Alego at his Segere home where they reportedly endorsed him to run for the Alego Usonga parliamentary seat.  His move to fill vacant positions with persons from Alego Usonga has been met with strong criticisms and claims that he was positioning himself to take over Alego Usonga constituency.    Gem of Siaya: Colonial chief who could flog parents for not taking their children to school  Family of high school teacher shot dead by police in Siaya call for justice  Mwalimu apigwa risasi kimakosa na polisi Siaya By Julius Chepkwony | 3 hours ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 4 hours ago By Stanley Ongwae | 5 hours ago By Stanley Ongwae | 6 hours ago