Former National Aids Control Council (NACC) Director Patrick Orege who is being buried today has been described as an inspiration in the medical research field.  The curtains fell on the veteran researcher on August 11, ending an illustrious career spanning 40 years. According to his family, the 69-year-old University of Nairobi and Harvard graduate died after a long illness.   John Ong’ech and Khama Rogo led doctors, friends and family in paying tribute to Dr Orege.  “He inspired me in research, especially in the area of HIV/Aids and prevention of Mother to Child Transmission of HIV (PMTCT). Due to his inspiration, I excelled in this area, generating many publications that influenced policy and practice,” Dr Ong’ech said. He hailed Orege’s role in establishing a low-cost private hospital – Bondo Medical Centre – that saved many lives in the villages. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey.   Women aged 15-24 at high risk of HIV infection  App that delivers condoms  HIV infections among youths worry experts  Uhuru woos India medical investors Rogo, who eulogised Orege as a former classmate and friend who had a sharp mind, said nothing could raffle him, not even the high pressure of medical school exams, which he always passed with flying colours.  “And nothing could stand on his way once his mind was made up. I want to remember him for his pioneering spirit and entrepreneurship, which established Alupe as a centre for excellence in health research (now university) and the innovative Bondo Medical Centre,” he said.  Rogo added that Orege will be remembered for his integrity and professionalism, carrying himself with dignity in a world that has been submerged in greed and self-aggrandisement.  At his home in Masita village, Bondo Sub-county, Siaya County, his condolence book sat on the table, perhaps offering those who interacted with him some sort of closeness and an opportunity to ‘talk’ to him one last time. Ajuoga, as he was fondly referred to at his rural home, started his medical career in 1978 at the entry level of Medical Officer in the Ministry of Health.  He had an extensive career at Kenya Medical Research Institute (Kemri), beginning as an assistant research officer (1982-1983) and becoming research officer in 1983-1985.  Between 1998 and 2000, he was the chief research officer and deputy director for research and development.  The focus of his research at Kemri was threefold: development of effective tools and mechanisms for prevention and control of infectious diseases;  development of effective treatment regiments for treatment of tuberculosis, leprosy, HIV/Aids, malaria, trypanosomiasis and other neglected tropical diseases, and the strengthening of health systems research.  In 2000, he was seconded to NACC, where he was a founding member, initially serving as technical deputy director (2000-2003), then acting director (2003-2004), and director (2005-2007). In 2007, he returned to Kemri as chief research officer and deputy director (research and development), a role he served until his retirement in 2015.  Alongside his research, academic and administrative roles, Orege also served as a global expert consultant on the epidemiology of infectious diseases, as well as serving in various capacities as a member of numerous biomedical scientific associations.  He was a member of the Scientific Steering Committee (SSC) since its inception in 1986, serving as its chair between 1998 and 2000.  He published over 100 scientific articles, including peer-reviewed manuscripts, book chapters, technical reports, and conference abstracts.  According to his sister-in-law, Regina Ombam-Akwiri, Orege will be remembered for his brilliance, diligence, and resilience, among other exceptional qualities.  He is survived by a widow, Dr Isabella Anyango, and five children.   Kenya National Aids Control Council, NACC, peaks on HIV at risk populations By Olivia Odhiambo | 2 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 1 day ago By Anne Atieno | 1 day ago By James Omoro | 3 days ago