Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has denied claims that security organs were being used to harass some politicians.   Dr Matiang'i dismissed allegations that the police were being used politically used, saying nothing will prevent him from doing his work of keeping the country safe and secure.   In an apparent response to claims by Deputy President William Ruto that police officers were harassing him and his allies, Matiang'i, without mentioning names, insisted he will remain undeterred by what he called sideshows.  The Cabinet Secretary spoke during the groundbreaking ceremony for police housing units at the Industrial Area Police Station in Nairobi yesterday. "My colleagues and I will stay on course and undeterred. We will not be distracted by any noise but we will keep our eyes on the ball of ensuring security of our people," said Matiang’i. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey.   High Court declares police officer’s transfers unconstitutional  Police bosses giving illegal orders to their juniors face jail, says DPP  One year later, police yet to trace missing colleague  Former deputy IG Kanampiu is dead He told the police to focus on their work. "No amount of pressure, manipulation and noise should take you away or distract you from the goal of securing our country.’’  Blocked at airport  Ruto was recently blocked from flying to Uganda in what ignited protests from his allies. The DP's associate and Turkish businessman Harun Aydin was later deported.   The CS said going forward, public sector projects will be completed without delay, variations and bribery.  “In the past before Executive Order of number 1, 2019 on Framework for Co-ordination and Implementation of National Government Development Programmes and Projects, we lost a lot of time as people interfered with the work of contractors seeking kickbacks. I am happy to report that it has not happened in the last four years and you can now see the amount of infrastructural work that has been done," said Matiang’i.  The 210 units will house about 350 police officers who are working at Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) in Nairobi.  The units will include 200 two-bedroom and 10 three-bedroom houses and will be built with financing from CBK within a year by Landmark Holdings as the contractor.  Inspector General Hilary Mutyambai praised CBK Governor Patrick Njoroge for spearheading the project, few days after launching a similar one in Ngong.    Njoroge challenged other institutions to emulate the CBK and come up with such projects to house the police.  "Once complete, about 210 police officers attached to the bank and their families will be accommodated in these units," said Njoroge.   NSL Action: Kenya Police 2-2 Modern Coast Rangers  Kidnappers Manhunt: Police probing kidnapping of 23-year-old Hafsa Mohamed rescued in Kayole  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death By Betty Njeru | 2 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 2 hours ago By Roselyne Obala | 5 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 5 hours ago