A family in Tebeson village, Uasin Gishu County is demanding justice after their twin daughters, both Class Seven pupils, were defiled and left pregnant.  The family says that since the incident occurred, authorities have not taken any action against the perpetrators.  “I went to the suspect's home protesting about the heinous act. The parents told me they would rein on their son. But the act continued even after several visits to the family,” said Philomena, the twin's mother.  The distraught mother said security agencies were not helpful either, and even after reporting the matter to local administration, no action was taken. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. “My children were defiled when they were 12 years old, but despite the protest, no one heeded to my distress. When I noticed they had become pregnant, I informed the parents of the suspects, and they chased me away,” she said.  Attempted rape charges haunt Senator Linturi after a night in Nanyuki  Wajir: 16-year-old girl gang-raped on her way home  Man handed life sentence for sodomising six-year-old daughter  Two men arrested for ‘gang-raping’ their friend’s girlfriend The twins were lured by different men with the promise they would marry them once they completed their studies.  However, the girls have since abandoned their studies as pregnancy took a toll on them.  Soy Deputy County Commissioner Mohamed Mwabazo blamed parents for failing to report the incidents on time to the authorities.  "We have taken action and already the OCS is in the area and all those culprits will be brought to book," said the administrator.  Villagers say the area is awash with teenage pregnancies and are appealing to the government to intervene.  “There are about 30 girls, barely 15 years old who are pregnant. Last month when the Form Ones where joining school, in this village alone, 10 of them left children at home,” said Irene Jeptoo, a resident.  A teacher at St John Soin Primary School told The Standard that the school has recorded at least seven pregnancies; two in Class Eight, four in Class Seven and one in Class Six.     Police in Kisumu arrests one suspect in ongoing security operation  Hearing of case of survivors of 2007/8 PEV against government postponed to 14th of April 2016  Fear grips residents of Khwisero, Kakamega following a spate of bizarre killings By Nikko Tanui | 2 days ago By Antony Gitonga | 2 days ago By James Munyeki | 2 days ago By Daniel Chege | 3 days ago