Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua and Lilian Nganga announced the end of their marriage on Sunday, August 15, 2021, via social media. [Courtesy]  Machakos County first couple, Governor Alfred Mutua and his wife Lilian Nganga have called it quits.  The two, who have been married for about five years, took to their various social media platforms to officially announce the end of their matrimonial union.  On Sunday, August 15, at about 3 pm, Ms Nganga took to her Instagram account and let her followers know that she had separated from the county boss, serving his second term, in June 2021. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. “Winds of change blew my way and two months ago, I decided to end my long term relationship with Dr Alfred Mutua. We had a good run and I am forever grateful to God he brought us together. We remain friends,” part of her post read.  My husband influenced 'defamatory' newspaper story about me – Eldoret Resident Magistrate  I quit teaching after being ridiculed for being left-handed – Machakos preacher  No love lost: Why UhuRuto divorce was a matter of when, not if  Can you remarry a wife or husband you’d divorced? Here’s what the law says An hour later, Machakos county boss confirmed the separation that took place eight weeks ago adding they still remain friends despite their marriage coming to an end.  “She will be a close advisor as I Govern Machakos County and run for President because I trust her sharp insight and heart. She has always been my number one fan,” Mutua said.  Of great concern, however, was that the duo did not disclose the reason behind their marriage exit.  “With this, I put down the Machakos first lady cap and what an honour it has been to be of service I will continue to do projects close to my heart, charity work through the Lilian Nganga Foundation,” she added.  Mutua went on “Lillian has been an excellent First Lady and even though she will do some projects under the Lillian Nganga foundation, we have agreed she can continue with her county projects,”  Mutua and Ms Nganga’s marriage came to the public attention when he was first elected into office, prompting her to take over the responsibilities of the First lady.  Prior to this, the former government spokesperson was married to Josephine Thumbi, with whom they have three children together.  Reports indicate that Mutua’s first marriage officially came to an end in 2015.   Spotlight 2017: Can Alfred Mutua overtake Kalonzo Musyoka as the Ukambani kingpin?  KTN Morning Express 26th April 2016: Person of Interest- Dr. Alfred Mutua   Msongamano mrefu wa magari yatatiza shughuli za usafiri katika barabara ya kutoka Mombasa - Nairobi By Peterson Githaiga and Jacinta Mutura | 3 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 10 hours ago By Martin Ndiema | 10 hours ago By Benard Sanga | 11 hours ago