Baringo Senator spoke after condoling with the family of the late Victor Prengei. [File, Standard]  Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to nominate a member of the Ogiek community as a replacement of nominated senator Victor Prengei who died on August 16 in a road accident in Nakuru County.  Speaking after condoling with the family of the late nominated senator at their home in Marioshoni on Sunday, Gideon said Prengei's nomination had brought hope to the marginalized community.     "Prengei was a source of hope for his community which for the first time had representation in Parliament. I will personally engage the President to have a member of the community nominated in Prengei's place," said Gideon.    Photos: DP William Ruto at Senator Victor Prengei’s funeral  Senators eulogise Victor Prengei as quiet man driven by conviction  OKA leaders vow ruling won't shake their unity  Uhuru's talks with Raila, OKA leaders hit another deadlock Gideon, who was received by Prengei's two widows Catherine Chepngetich and Claire Cheptoo, assured the Ogiek community of his support to resolve longstanding land issues in the area.   "With Prengei, we had started a journey to address challenges facing the Ogiek community and those living at the sidelines of Mau Forest. I will continue with the dream to its logical conclusion," said Gideon.   Plea by the community to have one of their own nominated in Prengei's place has received backing from other leaders including Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka and Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui.   Lusaka who spoke during the funeral service on Saturday recognized the long-time marginalization of the Ogiek community and pleaded with the party to heed their plea.   "I also support the proposal to have another Ogiek nominated to represent the special groups for the remaining eleven months. We must do all that we can to protect the interests of marginalized persons among us," said Lusaka.   Prengei was nominated to the Senate in 2017 through the Jubilee Party ticket to represent youth and special groups in the country. He was the vice-chairperson of the Senate's Energy Committee.    Seneta Gideon Moi aelezea matumaini yake kuwa mahakama itatoa uamuzi bora kuhusu mchakato wa BBI  Seneta Gideon Moi awaonya wanakandarasi baada ya mradi wa ujenzi kukuwama | MBIU WIKENDI Sehemu ya 2  Senator Gideon Moi calls upon the Mt. Kenya region leaders to join the One Kenya Alliance By Nikko Tanui and Kennedy Gachuhi | 4 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 7 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 10 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 10 hours ago I wouldn't wish Covid even on my worst enemy, says Raila man after second attack