Today, the Court of Appeal is expected to give a verdict on the nullification of the Constitutional Amendment Bill 2020 dubbed the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI).  Here is a glossary of terms useful in interpreting the submissions being made today:  Appellant: A person or any party in a case who applies to a higher court with an application to reverse the decision of a lower court.  Respondent: A party who responds to an appeal made by an appellant and who defends the decision that led to the appeal. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. Plaintiff: An individual or party who brings a case against another in a court of law.  BBI Appeal: Judges’ decisions so far  BBI verdict: Differences in IEBC quorum arise  Constitutional changes in Kenya since independence  Live Blog: The BBI judgement Defendant: An individual, company, institution or any party that has been sued in court.  Ruling: A court decision on any legal question presented before it during the course of litigation.  Injunction: A court order requiring a person or an institution to either do or stop doing a specific action.  Judgement: The final court’s official pronouncement to resolve all the contested issues in a lawsuit which brings the case to an end.  Interested Party:  Is a person with an identifiable stake or legal interest in proceedings before the court.  Amicus Curiae: Latin word for a “friend of the court” who is not party to the case but is enjoined to submit on matters of law to help the court in reaching its decision  Recuse: To disqualify or remove oneself as a judge or magistrate over conflict of interest or bias.  Bench: A group of uneven judges sitting as a collective whole.  Inter alia: Latin word used in legal pleadings to mean “among other things.”   Governor Charity Ngilu on BBI, 2022 Coalitions & State of the Nation | NEWSLINE WITH BEN KITILI  NCCK yadai BBI si jambo la lazima, Usajili katika vyama, Mzozo wa SRC | MBIU WIKENDI (Sehemu ya 2)  BBI Dilemma: Leaders caught off-guard by the nullification of BBI as it affects building coalitions By Barrack Muluka | 1 hour ago By Mactilda Mbenywe | 1 day ago By Sigomba Ramadhan Omar | 1 day ago By Winfrey Owino | 2 days ago