The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leader Raila Odinga (pictured) has launched ‘Azimio la Umoja’, a strategic plan aimed at uniting the country ahead of the 2022 General election.  Speaking in Nakuru County, Odinga said the strategic plan’s objective was to dissect problems facing the country, among them political inclusion, divisive electoral processes, insecurity, corruption and reviving the economy.  “We cannot continue pitting each other against the other: the young against the old, poor against the rich, one faith against the pother or tribe against tribe. Kenya cannot afford another era of political violence,” he said. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey.   Ruto warns against 2022 alliances, calls them tribal outfits   Uhuru meets Raila, OKA leaders as Jubilee okays pact with ODM  We will support one of our own in presidential race, say OKA leaders   Raila launches roadmap to house on the hill ‘through the mountain’ The ODM leader also pointed an accusing finger at a section of leaders alleging they take advantage of the problems affecting Kenyans rather than addressing and solving them.  “It is clear the problems will go beyond 2022 if they are not identified and addressed today,” Odinga remarked.  According to Odinga, the 2022 roadmap provides a conducive environment for the realization of the Vision 2030 development plan and building a nation where all rights are respected despite the position.  Odinga went on “When united, we can promote small scale businesses in marketplaces from unfair competition by foreigners as well as boosting investment through reasonable taxation. Leaders should serve the people, not laud over them.”  The four-time presidential aspirant opined through unity the country could safeguard the progress made, build and share prosperity equitably and fight against corruption and impunity.  “Leaders should fight for historically marginalised groups and unite to create wealth and shun using poverty as a tool for political gain,” he remarked.  Odinga toured Nakuru County on Tuesday, August 17 and was accompanied by Governors Lee Kinyanjui and Wycliffe Oparanya, Peter Kenneth, Rachel Shebesh, Edwin Sifuna, Junet Mohamed and Maina Kamanda.    Before his address, Odinga addressed residents of Nakuru along Kenyatta Avenue, where he urged them to respect the court’s decision on the BBI appeal case, which is to be made on Friday, August 20, 20         Exploring the preparedness and the key timeliness of the IEBC to conduct the 2022 General Elections  Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens  Raila Odinga has given the clearest indication yet that he is ready to work with One Kenya Alliance By Jacob Ngetich  | 40 minutes ago By Moses Nyamori | 40 minutes ago By Antony Gitonga and Julius Chepkwony | 40 minutes ago By Kennedy K Gachuhi | 40 minutes ago