Players in the public transport sector have welcomed the new directive to allow them to self-regulate and carry full capacity starting today.  The Chief Administrative Secretary (CAS) in the Ministry of Transport Christopher Obure announced the news on Friday after meeting stakeholders.  ‘‘We welcome the full capacity directive. We felt neglected when airplanes and trains were allowed to carry full capacity. We do not plan to increase or reduce fares considering the price of fuel has not decreased,’’ said Benard Mbwele, operations manager at Unified Poa Sacco, which plies the Nairobi-Thika route.  Mbwele said the matatus will not have any problem implementing the rules put in place by the government as they are already aware of what is expected of them to curb the spread of Covid-19. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey.   Matatus to carry full capacity starting Monday, Government says  Oscar Mizani, the roving artiste who plies his trade in matatus  End of the road? Job loss fears as BRT takes shape  Michuki the man who tamed matatus, Mungiki According to Mr Edwin Mukabana, the chairman of the Association of Bus Operators Kenya, over 127,000 workers in the sector lost have lost jobs so far.   Matatu Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai welcomed the directive saying matatu owners had lost a lot of income since the pandemic began.  ‘‘With the kind of revenue we were getting at 40 per cent, it was unsustainable and the industry was collapsing. Many people have left the sector, jobs lost, vehicles auctioned among other negative impacts. We will play our part in observing the new protocols,’’ said Kimutai.  He called on passengers to do their part in ensuring the measures are observed and also urged traffic police officers to be strict in enforcing the new rules.  ‘‘It’s upon us in the matatu sector, public and police to be patriotic by playing our part to reduce the spread of the virus,” he said.  The public transport sector has been hard hit by Covid-19 containment measures since March 2020.   Ubunifu Mtaani: Vijana wa Mitaani wameamua kujitafutia riziki na kuboresha Jamii  Wahudumu wa matatu wapewa muda wa dakika 5 kuegesha magari katika vituo kati kati mwa jiji  Matatu operators vow to ignore Governor Evans Kidero’s directive against on PSVs parking in CBD By Jacinta Mutura | 1 hour ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 1 hour ago By Jael Mboga | 4 hours ago By Robert Abong'o | 7 hours ago