For the last five years, Anne Kago is yet to receive enough water for her household. She says it has been hard for her six family members to operate with little water.  “I am forced to buy water from water bowsers on daily basis. Buying a 20 litres jerry can for Sh20 is quite expensive because l need several of them,” she says.  Anne is one of 30,000 residents of Nyayo Estate in Nairobi that have been struggling to survive with little water. Residents accuse the Nairobi Water officer for unending lies of providing enough water. Another resident James Musyoki shares the same frustrations, “There has been empty talks and no action. We have talked, held meetings and even wrote letters but nothing has happened. We now get water from bowsers supplying the estate.”   Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. Teddy Obiero, Chairman of the Nyayo Estate strongly believes the Nairobi Water office is out to do water business with residents of the estate. He laments, due to water shortage, tens of bowsers have now taken over with the supply of water in the estate. “There is no way one will operate without water. What we get is very little and cannot be enough for washing, taking and also use in toilets. We are therefore forced to buy water at a very expensive rate,” he says.  Water scarcity hits Kisii hard as rivers dry up  Gideon to take action on stalled dam project as he warns cartels  Let us focus on the BBI baby, not the bathwater  350,000 seedlings to be planted in Kaptagat annual tree planting Residents are now relating tens of water bowsers supplying water to the estate, and the water shortage.  “We have a lot of bowsers ferrying water into the estate. There must be a link between water shortage and increased water bowsers in the estate. Because, when you create artificial shortage it creates an opportunity for somebody else,” explains Obiero.   Maralal residents protest against water shortage that has been ongoing for two years now  Water Boost: World bank gives a grant of Ksh 32 million to boost water supply to Murang'a residents  PWC calls for adoption of expanded budget for the Kenyan public By Mireri Junior | 1 day ago By Pkemoi Ng’enoh | 2 days ago By Collins Kweyu | 3 days ago By Jael Mboga | 6 days ago