Migori Governor Okoth Obado.[Courtesy]  Migori Governor Okoth Obado has declared support for the bottom-up economic model backed by Deputy President William Ruto.  His remarks have raised questions about the political direction he will take in next year's elections.  The governor had early this year declared that he had defected from ODM and moved to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on whose ticket he vied for governorship in 2013. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey.   Ruto warns against 2022 alliances, calls them tribal outfits   We will support one of our own in presidential race, say OKA leaders   Jubilee, ODM in pre-election coalition deal  It's industries, not wheelbarrows, that will lift Kenyans out of poverty On Sunday, Mr Obado, who attended a graduation ceremony at Kamagambo Adventist College, noted that propaganda was being spread about the bottom-up economic model.  He noted that those who had studied economics would agree with him that the model could be explained under the multiplier effect.  "The bottom-up approach is ideal in that it is meant to create employment for youth."  South Mugirango MP Silvanus Osoro, who was also at the graduation ceremony, echoed Obado’s sentiments, saying that the approach meant that the common mwananchi stands to benefit.  “It means we start with the boda boda riders and mama mboga before going up,” Mr Osoro said.  Osoro termed other models by the deputy president’s rivals as noise and pure politics.  Dr Ruto on July 30 noted that the model was aimed at creating jobs, and a conversation about the economy will bury tribalism, patronage, cronyism and corruption.  “Bottom-up economic model is focused on liberating enterprises from Shylock credit exploitation and unfair regulation and empowering our farmers,” Mr Ruto tweeted.  Governor Obado’s support for the economic model has left people wondering whether he has abandoned plans to run for the presidency under PDP or is backing Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance (UDA).    Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana  DP William Ruto has been stopped from travelling to Uganda where he was headed for a private visit  Wabunge 3 Tana River washinikiza wananchi kumuunga mkono Naibu Rais William Ruto | MBIU YA KTN (2) By Jacob Ngetich  | 40 minutes ago By Moses Nyamori | 40 minutes ago By Antony Gitonga and Julius Chepkwony | 40 minutes ago By Kennedy K Gachuhi | 40 minutes ago