When Covid-19 hit the world in 2020, there was an outcry about a solution. One of the hottest topics was the need for a vaccine against the coronavirus, which has a huge impact on human health and economies.  Since mid-February, seven different Covid-19 vaccines have been rolled out across the world, with vulnerable sectors of the community being prioritised. While a safe and effective vaccine holds the greatest promise against the pandemic, across the globe hesitancy to accept vaccines remains common. Nationally, a situational report by the Ministry of Health show only two per cent in every 100 Kenyans have been vaccinated. The government is conducting vaccination free of charge and is aiming to vaccinate at least 10 million adults by the end of the year.  As of August 17, 2,154,825 vaccines had been administered across the country. Of these, first doses are 1,393,905 while second doses are 760,920. The proportion of adults fully vaccinated stands at 2.8 per cent.  A 2020 Africa CDC survey in 15 countries found that while 79 per cent of respondents would take a Covid-19 vaccine, vaccine hesitancy ranged from four to 38 per cent because of widespread concerns about safety, side effects, and effectiveness. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has outlined three “C’s” that contribute to vaccine hesitancy: complacency, convenience and confidence. We could also add a fourth: culture. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. Amid the pandemic, getting the vaccine is a powerful step in taking charge of your health. The development of the vaccines did not cut corners on testing for safety and efficacy. The government and WHO have assured that the vaccines were made using processes developed and tested over many years.  Medics want pregnant women prioritised for Covid-19 vaccine  Curfews are not serving the intended purpose now  Lobby wants local air travel rules eased  Caterers lose Sh30 million as devolution conference is cancelled It’s time for real soul-searching about the Covid-19 vaccine if you’ve ever: received vaccines for chickenpox, flu, hepatitis A and B, measles, mumps, polio, rotavirus, rubella, tetanus or whooping cough, and enjoy not having those things thanks to the miracle of science. Widespread acceptance of Covid-19 vaccines is crucial for achieving sufficient immunisation. Stopping a pandemic requires using all the tools the government has made available. Wearing masks and social distancing help reduce your exposure to the virus or spreading it to others. Vaccines work with your immune system, so it will be ready to fight the virus if you get it.  By themselves, the vaccines cannot shorten the pandemic, but they will enable us to progress to a new normal. They can only work when communities agree to receive them. As more people receive the vaccine, the spread of the virus becomes unlikely.  - Communications officer at Pharmacy and Poisons Board    Ministry of Health receives 180,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine as a donation from Gov't of Greece  HEALTH WATCH: How Covid-19 misinformation worldwide has created panic by misleading masses  KEMRI makes a breakthrough in the fight against Covid-19 by developing a Virus Transport Media (VTM) By Editorial | 4 hours ago By Kennedy Opondo | 4 hours ago By Wanjiku Thiga | 5 hours ago By Gitile Naituli | 5 hours ago