Foreign Affairs CS Amb Raychelle Omamo (L) with Tanzanian counterpart Amb. Liberata Mulamula (C).  [Ministry of Foreign Affairs]  Kenya and Tanzania have signed three key Memoranda of Understanding (MoU), in a bid to enhance bilateral relations between the two countries.  Kenya’s Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Raychelle Omamo hosted her Tanzanian counterpart Ambassador Liberata Mulamula for a Joint Commission for Cooperation. Mulamula is in the country on a two-day visit.  The leaders met to deliberate on directives arrived at during President Samia Suluhu’s visit to Kenya in May this year.  “Deliberations during the JCC were undertaken cognizant of the existing areas of cooperation between the two countries in the political, defence, security, economic social and cultural spheres,” the ministers said in a press statement.  Kenya-Somalia relations: Ministers agree to expedite reopening process Omamo added that they had signed into action three major MoUs on education, political consultation and reaffirmation and demarcation of the international boundary.  “On border reaffirmation, the Ministers took note of the commendable progress made in the reaffirmation and demarcation exercise and urged both Governments to commit sufficient resources to ensure the exercise towards the implementation of the remaining phase of the reaffirmation exercise within the set timelines.”  The duo also discussed trade and deliberated on how to unlock barriers preventing trade between the two East African nations.  “So far we have dealt with 30 of 64 barriers. We have reinforced the strong relationship we have with Tanzania. Tanzania is more than a friend,” Omamo noted.    Mulamula was accompanied by seven other Tanzanian ministers. Speaking to press on Tuesday, she said that the meeting was successful and agreed to meet with Kenya in a year’s time.  The next meeting will take place in Tanzania.  In May, President Uhuru Kenyatta hosted Tanzania’s Samia Suluhu, two months after she took office.  Kenyatta and Suluhu met for private talks and a bilateral meeting with their delegations comprising senior government officials, which mainly focused on trade ties, firmed up with the signing of two co-operations.  The two leaders hailed the special relationship the two countries enjoy and agreed to solve issues that impeded trade and strain relations.   By Jael Mboga | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 15 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 17 hours ago By Rose Mukonyo | 17 hours ago