Ahadi Trust Executive Director Stanley Kamau donates a blanket to an elderly woman in Mathioya, Murang'a. [Boniface Gikandi, Standard]  Hundreds of elderly people are struggling across the country in search of the Covid-19 vaccine.  Their plight was demonstrated by Nancy Wairimu of Kiamuturi village in Mathioya, Murang’a, who recounted how she has been waking up early as 3am only to find long queues at the nearby Nyakianga and Kiria-ini health centres.  Wairimu, who is in her 70’s, asked healthcare providers to consider home visits to vaccinate the old and save them the agony, saying most of them have underlying conditions.    How will Nairobi look like in 2071 AD?  I wouldn't wish Covid even on my worst enemy, says Raila man after second attack  Covid-19 infections up by 788  Listen to doctors, ignore political analysts and go for Covid vaccine “In the past five days, I have been spending Sh500 to and from Kiriaini health centre looking for the vaccination, which is always exhausted by 10am,” said Wairimu.  She spoke when the Ahadi Trust Executive Director Stanley Kamau distributed foodstuff and blankets to the elderly at the Kiamuturi Secondary School in Mathioya, Murang’a, on Friday.  Kamau called on the national and county governments to use mobile clinics to reach the vulnerable. “The elderly do not have information on the vaccines, therefore the need for vaccination centres to be established at chiefs offices,” he said.  In Murang’a county, the latest figures indicate that the ICU is full. At least 19,780 have received the second jab and 41,108 have had the first.    Ministry of Health receives 180,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine as a donation from Gov't of Greece  HEALTH WATCH: How Covid-19 misinformation worldwide has created panic by misleading masses  KEMRI makes a breakthrough in the fight against Covid-19 by developing a Virus Transport Media (VTM) By Rosa Agutu | 8 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 8 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 8 hours ago By Joackim Bwana | 8 hours ago Secret calls that led to removal of Ruto's elite GSU security team