ODM leader Raila Odinga has assured residents of Mt Kenya region that he has good plans for the region.  Addressing residents after a service at Bible Fellowship church in Kangari, Murang’a County, yesterday, he sought to dispel claims that he is an enemy of Mt Kenya.  Making reference to Psalms 133:1 and Jeremiah 29:11, Raila called for unity in the region and urged residents to support his agenda for the country.    “We have plans for the future of Mt Kenya region to move the country forward. I’m bringing good plans and development to you and not to harm you,” the ODM leader said.  Critics raise concern over Joho's one-month absence from public eye  It is do or die for Kalonzo, Raila and Mudavadi in the 2022 General Election  Plans for Uhuru succession: Why the opposition is no longer at ease  Ruto downplays security changes as Kalonzo tells him ‘he’ll get used to it’ Took credit  He took credit for the infrastructural projects in the region, saying they were laid during his tenure as Prime Minister in the Grand Coalition Government.  “We constructed Thika Super Highway in our times and designed Thiba dam in Kirinyaga and the Mau Mau road projects, we mean well for this region I’m not your enemy,” he said.  The ODM leader criticised Deputy President William Ruto for falling out with President Uhuru Kenyatta and accused him of hypocrisy in opposing the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI)  “He sired a child with the President and he is now opposing it, he has been hypocritical in opposing the BBI which was helping the region,” added Raila.  He took the opportunity to remind Mt Kenya about the good relations that existed between the Kikuyu and the Luo communities saying the handshake with the President was aimed at restoring the same citing the harmonious working relationship between his father Mzee Jaramogi Oginga Odinga and Mzee Jomo Kenyatta.  He was accompanied by MPs, host Wangari Mwaniki, Maina Kamanda (Nominated), Jeremiah Kioni (Ndaragwa), Eve Obara (Kasipul Kabondo), Junet Mohammed (Suna East), Simba Arati (Dagoretti North) and Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris.  Mr Kioni challenged residents to end Raila phobia in central Kenya.  Jeremiah Kioni. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  “We have peddled anti-Raila remarks in the region for more than nine years, it will take us courage, commitment, and honesty to tell our people the truth, but, we must do it slowly because a black man is not always comfortable with truth and facts,” he said.  Mobilise voters  The Ndaragwa MP acknowledged that it may prove difficult to change people who have been brainwashed that Raila was their enemy.  Ms Mwaniki vowed to crisscross Kigumo Constituency to change the negative perception about the ODM leader in the region.  “We are not selfish, we stand by the truth, Kariuki Njiri stepped down in favour of Kenyatta and you have sacrificed a lot for the country. We shall mobilise voters for you in return,” she said.  Her sentiments were echoed by Mr Kamanda who said leaders from the region were ready to start a campaign with an aim of reminding locals about the history between the Agikuyu and the Luos.   Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana  DP William Ruto has been stopped from travelling to Uganda where he was headed for a private visit  Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens By Patrick Beja | 1 hour ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 8 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 8 hours ago By Standard Team | 8 hours ago