Police officers implicated in the death of Kianjakoma brothers when they were arraigned at the Milimani law courts. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  Six officers suspected of killing Kianjokoma brothers have been detained for 14 days to complete investigations.  They are Corporal Consolota Njeri, Corporal Benson Mbuthia, Constable Lilian Cherono, Constable Martin Wanyama, Constable Nicholas Sang and Constable James Mwaniki (driver).  The six, who were today arraigned at the Milimani courts, will be held at Capital Hill Police Station.  Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. Officers implicated in the killing of the Embu brothers have been suspended to pave way for prosecution.  IPOA, DPP crack whip on suspects of Kianjokoma brothers’ death   Police officers linked to Embu brothers death suspended  Thoroughly probe the Embu killings  Leaders call out police as Embu brothers buried Inspector-General of Police Hillary Mutyambai said the Independent Policing Oversight Authority has concluded investigations on the matter and forwarded the file to the DPP.  "I assure you that justice for the Kianjokoma brothers will be served, but this can only be done if we allow the proper due process to take place with concrete evidence that can stand a trial in court," Mutyambai said on Twitter during his Engage the IG session.  Benson Njiru, 22, and Emmanuel Mutura, 19, were arrested for allegedly flouting the 10pm-4am curfew on August 1, outside their family shop in Kianjokoma shopping centre.  On August 3 the siblings’ bodies were found at the Embu Level 5 Hospital morgue.  The deceased’s uncle, Felix Nthiga, claimed Njiru and Mutura were arrested by police officers attached to Manyatta station.  The family said the boys’ bodies were found at Kibungu shopping centre, 10km from where they had been arrested on Sunday night.  The siblings’ father, John Ndwiga, said he “was certain” police were responsible for his children’s deaths.  “I viewed their bodies and I could tell they were physically assaulted. Their faces were swollen and had bruises,” he told The Standard.   By Joackim Bwana | 40 minutes ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 40 minutes ago By James Omoro | 40 minutes ago By Standard Team | 6 hours ago