The bus belonging to Lions Academy. [Murithi Mugo, Standard]  Police in Embu are investigating an incident in which a school bus belonging to Lions Academy, a primary school, was set ablaze by boda boda operators.    The incident happened this morning at around 8am. There were no children on the school bus at the time.    Boda boda operators are said to have attacked the bus driver. [Murithi Mugo, Standard]  Four die in two separate road accidents along Nairobi-Nakuru highway  All set for the inaugural Boda Boda tourney  Tribute: Victor Prengei fought for rights of minority groups  Nabongo Mumia and the boda boda business link Inviolata Imani, the acting Embu West Subcounty police commander, said the driver of the bus escaped after being attacked by the operators.  Embu county boda boda association chairman said those who torched the bus are hooligans. [Murithi Mugo, Standard]  The riders were reacting after a head-on collision that involved the school bus and a boda boda operator.   Resident Ruth Muguna said, "The boda boda rider was from dropping a child at Michael Primary School.”  Imani said the boda boda rider died on his way to the hospital.  "We have not traced the driver who escaped after being assaulted by the riders," Imani said.  Police say they are investigating the incident in Embu that involved the torching of the school bus. [Murithi Mugo, Standard]  She said the matter is under investigation and warned residents against taking the law into their hands.  Muguna requested the people plying the road to reduce speed as many pupils use the road.  Martin Muchira, the chairman of boda boda operators in Embu County and the Eastern region, condemned the incident, saying those who torched the bus are hooligans and not boda boda operators.  Witnesses said the motorbike and bus driver were both speeding.  Eric Mugambi, a boda boda operator, said there is a need to put up speed bumps on the route used by school buses and motorbikes.   Abiria wanne wafariki katika ajali ya barabarani katika eneo la Murang'a  Interview with Transport PS Irungu Nyakera on the increasing number of deaths from road accidents  Number of deaths from road accidents in Kenya on the rise By Jane Mugambi | 1 day ago By Muriithi Mugo | 1 day ago By Muriithi Mugo | 1 day ago By Philip Muasya | 2 days ago