In Kenya, cancer is the third leading cause of death. [File, Standard]  All cancer centres countrywide have been directed to report new cases to the National Cancer Institute of Kenya after every 60 days.  Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe said the move, which takes effect on September 1, 2021, will aid in record-keeping.  “The National Cancer Institute of Kenya notifies [cancer care] providers that beginning September 1, 2021, they will be required to, within 60 days of making a cancer diagnosis, to make notification to the Institute for purposes of maintaining the national cancer registry,” said Kagwe in a notice to all cancer centres.  “The notification shall be done into a secure web-based portal from a personal computer or a smart mobile device from any location in Kenya.”  Governor Salim Mvurya’s mother, Sada Mgalla, dies at 75 years  Tussle over pesticides ban Bill  Kabarak to offer pioneer cancer course after deal with global body  Inside county’s strategy to beat cancer and diabetes The Cancer Institute is a State corporation established by the Cancer Prevention and Control Act of 2012.  Its mandate is to provide coordination, oversight and regulation of cancer prevention and control in the country.  The institute regulates cancer care providers, maintains the national cancer registry, conducts public education, cancer awareness, research and development.  In Kenya, cancer is the third leading cause of death after infectious and cardiovascular diseases. From 2012 to 2018, the annual incidence of cancer increased from 37,000 to 47,887 new cases. During the same period, annual cancer mortality rose almost 16 per cent, from 28,500 to 32,987 cancer-related deaths.   Fate of Cancer patients   KTN Morning Express 5th February 2016, Kenyatta Hospital joins the Fight against Cancer  Cancer scourge:Reports show that cancer causes 27,000 deaths in Kenya By Joackim Bwana | 5 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago