A man who defiled his neighbour's 10-year-old daughter will serve 20 years in jail.  Kabarnet Resident Magistrate Vienna Amboko found Emul Lopuyet, 46, guilty of defilement, saying the prosecution had tabled compelling evidence that the accused committed the offence on August 19, 2020, at Chemolingot village.  The court also found Lopuyet guilty of committing an indecent act against the minor.  The minor told the court how the suspect who had been hired by her grandmother to fix a fence pounced on her as she was guarding their maize farm.    Minors defiled and teacher raped after gang raids three schools in Ikolomani   Pakistani women on their own as wanton rape, oppression rise  Social media users put on notice over internet abuse  Court orders DCI officers to trace minor abducted by her mother “Lopuyet was erecting a fence in my grandmother's farm.  "I decided to take a nap under an acacia tree because I was tired and it was hot,” the girl narrated.  She said Lopuyet held her hands and pulled her towards the acacia shrubs, adding that when she tried to resist, he slapped her.  The medical report presented in court by Christopher Rotich showed that the minor was defiled.  However, in his defence, the accused said he had been framed since there was bad blood between his family and the minors.  Amboko noted that the evidence produced in court was sufficient that the minor was defiled after she positively identified the accused.  "I did not defile the girl. On the material day I took my goats to graze in Kiwawa area while in the company my son," he said.     Police in Kisumu arrests one suspect in ongoing security operation  Hearing of case of survivors of 2007/8 PEV against government postponed to 14th of April 2016  Fear grips residents of Khwisero, Kakamega following a spate of bizarre killings By Nikko Tanui | 1 day ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 2 days ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 2 days ago By Irissheel Shanzu | 2 days ago Secret calls that led to removal of Ruto's elite GSU security team