Timothy Maneno (left) with Daniel Musau of UDA. [Stephen Nzioka, Standard]  The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has cleared only two candidates for the forthcoming Nguu/Masumba ward by-election.  Eshio Mwaiwa of Wiper party and Daniel Musau of UDA were given the green light, paving way for the Kalonzo Musyoka-led party to muscle out with Deputy President William Ruto's man in the October 14 mini poll.  Immediately after he was cleared at Makindu IEBC offices, the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) candidate told off critics over what he termed as archaic politics of which parties control which regions in Kenya.    The grey areas in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s quest for a successor to secure his legacy   Secretariat to join AG in BBI appeal at apex court   Ruto allies protest withdrawal of residence elite security but police say move is normal  Sort out your differences, clerics tell President Uhuru and Ruto  “There is nothing like some regions being controlled by certain political parties. We are being elected on basis of who can help the people. Nguu/Masumba electorates know the person who has been assisting them and those who have just emerged due to a vacancy that has been announced,” said Musau.  On his part, the Wiper party candidate promised to follow the footsteps of his predecessor of a good track record.  “I want to tell the people of Nguu/Masumba that I will continue with the dream of ensuring our people have clean water,” Mwaiwa said  The two rivals said they will do their campaigns without rallies, in line with the set Covid-19 protocols.  A third candidate, Timothy Maneno (Independent) was rejected by the electoral body due to irregularities in his papers.  Nguu/Masumba Ward seat was left vacant following the death of Harris Ngui in a tragic road crash at Salama, along Mombasa-Nairobi highway.  According to IEBC, the ward has a total of 11,233 registered voters.      Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao  Muungano wa NASA umevunjika rasmi baada ya ANC, Wiper na Ford Kenya kutangaza kujiondoa kwao  Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana By Nehemiah Okwembah | 10 minutes ago By James Wanzala | 10 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 12 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 13 hours ago