Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir. [File, Standard]  Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir has said that the Judiciary demonstrated its independence and professionalism in the judgement against the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI).  Mr Nassir noted that ODM leader Raila Odinga was at the forefront of agitating for constitutional change which gave birth to an independent and sound Judiciary that has shown the whole world its impartiality in discharging justice.  "What we are seeing today is actually the hard work and dedication of the likes of Raila as they agitated for constitutional review," he said. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey.   Coast biggest loser in BBI verdict, leaders say  Appellate court affirms constitution safeguards   Verdict spells doom for three Bills in Parliament  Ruto sustains his attacks on Uhuru and Raila after BBI fall He reiterated that they have heeded calls by Raila to move on after the Court of Appeal judgement.  "We respect the court's decision. In fact, it is a pure show of maturity and total independence of our Judiciary," he said.  Nassir who was flanked by two Mombasa MCAs Priscillah Mumba (Ganjoni/Shimanzi ward) and Tobias Samba (Tudor ward) said that the Constitution was for all Kenyans and not an individual.  He disclosed that ODM will convene a parliamentary group meeting to chart the way forward after the BBI judgement.  Nassir said he was shocked to see a section of MPs celebrate the court's decision despite voting for BBI.  "This is hypocrisy of the highest order by some honourable Members of Parliament. They have no firm standing," he said.  The MP told the developer of the Sh6 billion Buxton housing project in Mombasa to heed the order by Senate Committee on Roads and Transportation to temporarily stop construction works over some inadequacies.  "I wish to categorically state here that as a resident and MP for the area where the project is domiciled, I am not against any kind of development. It should however follow all the proper channels and ensure that no one feels aggrieved by its implementation," he said.  Businessman, Suleiman Shahbal is associated with the project.   Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens  Raila Odinga has given the clearest indication yet that he is ready to work with One Kenya Alliance  Raila Odinga: Hio NASA kazi yake ilikwisha, lakini huko mbele tutakuja pamoja By Wainaina Ndung'u | 4 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 8 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 9 hours ago By Robert Kiplagat  | 9 hours ago