A teacher was raped, two primary school students defiled and three watchmen assaulted by a gang of criminals that raided three schools in Ikolomani, Kakamega County, on Wednesday night.  The criminals are also said to have made away with an unknown amount of money and other valuables during the attacks that were carried out between 10pm and 3am.  The gang of five first raided Mulele Primary School, in West Maragoli, where they attacked a watchman, one of whom is admitted in hospital in Iguhu and is in critical condition. They then moved to Lusui Secondary School and later a private primary school along the Kakamega-Kisumu highway where they raped a teacher and defiled the minors.  "An alarm was raised and our officers responded. We have arrested one suspect who has already recorded a statement with us," said Hassan Barua, the county police commander.  He added: "The minors and the teacher were treated at the Kakamega Teaching and Referral Hospital and discharged. They are now undergoing counselling.”  Pakistani women on their own as wanton rape, oppression rise  Social media users put on notice over internet abuse  Court orders DCI officers to trace minor abducted by her mother  Bunge Chronicles: MPs should do away with criminal records When they raided the private school, Barua said, the gang broke into several offices, including of the director and stole valuables, including phones and money.   "This is a bad day for us. We have done so much to ensure the school is secure but the criminals still broke in. I am saddened by what happened," said the director of the school, who did not wish to be named.   School under attack  Lusui Secondary principal Newton Madaga said he received a call from one of the cooks who informed him the school was under attack.    "The attackers had tied our watchman and locked him in a classroom. They later broke into my office, the deputy principal's office, the staffroom and the bursar’s office. They stole Sh15,000 from the canteen and the staff room. They also stole packets of milk and two phones from my deputy’s office,” said Madaga.  He regretted that a similar attack happened in his school in 2017 when criminals stole computers and other electronic gadgets.  The watchman of Mulele Primary School, on the border of Kakamega and Vihiga counties, was slashed several times but reports indicated that he is stable.   MWANAMKE NGANGARI: Kutana na Esther ambaye ni fundi wa pikipiki kazi inayofanywa sana na wanaume  MWANAMKE NGANGARI: Kutana na Lydia Moraa muuzaji mahindi, anatumia binja kuvutia wateja wake  Several people injured in Bamburi after they were attacked by gangsters, two 17-year-old's arrested By Alexander Chagema | 18 hours ago By Robert Amalemba | 18 hours ago By Brian Kisanji | 1 day ago By Alexander Chagema | 2 days ago