Residents accessed Deputy Governor James Gesami's home through the fence. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  Residents of Gianchore Village in West Mugirango Constituency, Nyamira County on Tuesday, August 17 sneaked into the home of newly sworn-in Deputy Governor James Gesami and scrambled for food.  Gesami had hosted area governor, Amos Nyaribo, to a party after his swearing-in, which, until Tuesday, had faced several hurdles.  Tens of residents scrambling for food at Nyamira DG James Gesami's home. [Sammy Omingo, Standard] Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. Security was beefed up around the DG’s home a better part of Tuesday.  James Gesami sworn in as Nyamira Deputy Governor  Governor to work with anti-graft body to nab corrupt county staff  Calls for probe into collapse of Assembly building  Nyamira Governor Nyaribo dealt huge blow High Court stops vetting of Gesami However, in the afternoon, tens of residents who had milled around the homestead sneaked into the DG’s compound through the fence.  It was 'everyone for himself'. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  Many squeezed themselves in by pushing apart the thorny fence. The break-in was solely for food.  The outside catering team that was tasked with feeding attendees of the party were reduced to spectators as the tens of hungry residents took control of operations.  Only the strongest survived. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  Some were eating from hotpots, others were carrying food in their hands as some ate directly from the sufurias. It was chaos.  After eating to their satisfaction, the residents left one after the other – either alone or in groups.  Some ate directly from the pots. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  What they left behind, were empty plates, hotpots and sufurias scattered all over the compound.  The outside catering team members were reduced to spectators. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  Dr. James Gesami’s nomination as the Nyamira Deputy Governor was approved by the County Assembly on August 9 after a long tussle.  After all, everyone wanted to go home full. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]      Siasa za Nyamira: Gavana Nyangarama achuana na James Gesami By Harold Odhiambo | 3 days ago By Kevine Omollo  | 4 days ago By Eric Abuga and Harold Odhiambo | 5 days ago By Kevine Omollo  | 6 days ago