Police in Bomet County have launched investigations into an incident where a man allegedly poured hot tea on his wife’s genital area and legs for reading his mistress’ text message on his phone.  While speaking to the media from her parents’ home on Sunday, August 29, Sharon Chepkorir, 25, said her husband allegedly walked in and found her noting down the mobile number her spouse had received a message from.  “He saw me noting down the contacts then inquired what I was doing with his phone I kept quiet. It is then that he took tea that from the fire and poured it on me,” Sharon narrated.  In a video possessed by The Standard, part of Sharon’s left leg had sustained burn wounds allegedly from the incident and she is seen struggling to make a step.  Five people killed, seven others admitted in Londiani  Our son's killers will never know peace, say slain student's family  Four linked to Kericho M-Pesa agent killing nabbed, car seized  Collapse of Soin Sugar factory miller dashes hopes of Kericho farmers “I got burnt on my private parts and partly on the legs and thighs. I cannot even sit down normally,” she said fighting back tears.  David Yegon, one of Sharon’s relatives said the couple had differences they had tried to resolve before but to no avail.  “We have tried to solve this issues before as a family and I think it’s time the government officials intervened in the matter,” Yegon remarked.  Reports indicate that the 32-year-old, Alfred Kigen, had received a ‘hello’ text message from a female suspected to be his mistress.  Chemelet location Chief Evans Maritim confirmed the incident adding investigations into the incident would be conducted by police officers to establish what happened between the two.  Sharon has been treated and is recuperating.  [Additional Reporting and video by NikkoTanui]   KTN Leo Nyanjani (26/04/2016): Ongezeko la mauaji ya kinyumbani  Standard Group Sam Shollei; Launches KTN News Channel sensitization caravan  Bomet governor Isaac Ruto rubbishes allegations of using county funds to campaign in Kericho By Nikko Tanui and Kennedy Gachuhi | 4 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 6 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 10 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 10 hours ago