Deputy President William Ruto’s allies are mulling a political merger with ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi ahead of the 2022 General Election.  A delegation led by Nandi Governor Stephen Sang to Vihiga county to attend a funeral appeared to be a scheme to woo Mudavadi to rally Western to back the DP.  Speaking during the funeral service of Ezina Kaluhi wife of Kibwareng Ward MCA Jackson Swadi at Mukhulu grounds on the border of Vihiga and Nandi counties, Sang said a Ruto and Mudavadi ticket would ensure they clinch the presidency in round one.  Mudavadi listened keenly as Ruto’s lieutenants made their case but Western leaders present urged Kenyans to back the ANC leader's presidential bid come the elections on August 9, next year.    Leeds sign winger James from Manchester United on permanent deal  DP Ruto dismisses calls for Matiang'i to explain security detail change  Cristiano Ronaldo completes Manchester United return  The roots of Kikuyu’s strong political and economic clout “We were where Mudavadi is right now when we supported Raila, its time he (Mudavadi) takes his own route and thinks of making new friends including Ruto," said the governor.  Sang said the Nandi and Luhya have a political history and it was high time they rekindled their unity in 2022.  He urged Mudavadi to ditch Raila and forge a political alliance with Ruto.  The governor advised the ANC leader not to wait for endorsement from anyone.  This was in reference to a series of State House meetings in Mombasa between President Kenyatta, One Kenya Alliance (OKA) leaders and Raila.  OKA brings together Mudavadi, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Kanu chairman Gideon Moi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula.  "Stop the State House meetings in Mombasa and Nairobi, come to the ground and look for votes like Ruto is doing. You should not be fooled since we already know the President will eventually support Raila," Sang said.  He said the only way Mudavadi will grow his popularity beyond Western was by embracing partnership with like-minded leaders “or else, you risk even losing you backyard.”  The governor exuded confidence that the DP has the capacity to snatch away Western voters from Mudavadi.  But Mudavadi was categorical that his eyes are fixed on the prize and will not support any other person.  Mudavadi warned leaders against fanning tribal politics and urged them to unite  Kenyans ahead of the polls.  "The 2022 election should not be a bloody election, let us mind our utterances when addressing our people," he said.  The ANC leader said politicians should not intimidate Kenyans into supporting their bids and vowed not to wait for any endorsement.  "I am still vying for the presidency in 2022 and I am not waiting to be endorsed, I am capable of rallying Kenyans to vote for me," said Mudavadi.  He reiterated that the President has never pushed any leader to support Raila in 2022.  "I have addressed the matter and I was not coerced to support any person during our meeting in Mombasa and Nairobi as alleged by some leaders," said Mudavadi.  The ANC leader noted voters will determine who will be their leaders.  He claimed that Raila and Ruto were showing signs of anger and they were not fit to lead the nation.  "Leadership doesn't need a leader who is angry daily as Raila and Ruto are, we need a sober leader like me to help Kenyans," said Mudavadi.  "We should not be talking of a Western alliance but talk of Kenyan alliance. I know if we work together will will help Kenyans," he said.  Mudavadi reiterated his commitment to fix the ailing economy if elected president.  Nandi county assembly Speaker Joshua Kiptoo said Mudavadi and Ruto appears to be committed to fix the ailing economy and should join hands to move the country forward.   Exploring the preparedness and the key timeliness of the IEBC to conduct the 2022 General Elections  Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao  Muungano wa NASA umevunjika rasmi baada ya ANC, Wiper na Ford Kenya kutangaza kujiondoa kwao By Stephen Nzioka | 1 hour ago By Jael Mboga | 9 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 13 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich and Ndung’u Gachane | 21 hours ago