Irungu Houghton, Director Amnesty International Kenya. [File]  Friday’s ruling by the Appellate Court that the process of amending the Constitution was itself unconstitutional, is unequivocal. The sober reactions of politicians supporting the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) probably signals the end of road.  The ruling comes in the wake of two bloody weeks and widespread concern about the quality of policing over the August 9, 2022 elections. The security sector reform and human rights-based policing was one of the fingers in the 2018 handshake and BBI reforms. How can we retain this focus ahead of next year’s General Election?  The widespread feeling that not all are equal under the law, partisan use of security agencies against political opponents and public lawlessness were the three major triggers for electoral violence in 2008 and 2017. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. Twelve months to the next election, these triggers have not been significantly disabled.  Police gone rogue? IPOA now probing 105 deaths  Rising crimes call for urgent repair of our social fabric  15-day-old baby left unattended as police arrest mother in the night  Enact law to ensure officers who ignore juniors' crimes are punished Kianjokoma and Mathare offer two recent contrasting experiences. Millions tweeted and hundreds publicly protested to demand justice for the Ndwiga brothers of Kianjokoma.  Millions closely followed the reaction of the National Police, Independent Policing Oversight Authority, Director of Public Prosecutions, and the Interior Ministry leadership. We watched the funeral and continued to demand justice. Within one week, two commanders were transferred, and six officers fired and prosecuted in court of law.  Tragically, Kianjokoma has become a verb for the families of seven other citizens killed by police officers in Nairobi’s informal settlements also.  Ndwiga brothers of Kianjokoma. [Courtesy]  “We too have been kianjokomad” is their cry. Teenager Nyamai of Bondeni (14), Musula (20s), Ian Mutiso of Mlango Kubwa (21), and four others were killed by police officers in one week. Like the Ndwiga brothers, there is no evidence that the eight were killed resisting arrest.  Unlike the brothers, there was no trending hashtag, no full names, livestreamed funerals, internal investigations, arrests or transfers. No lawyers or psychosocial counsellors leaped to offer pro bono services to the affected families.  Mathare community organiser Stoneface Bomba, himself a victim of Ian Mutiso, put it powerfully this week, “while criminal suspects in other parts of the city are arrested and jailed, police kill the “disposable” young men of the ghetto.  Mutiso committed crimes and even personally attacked me. But he never deserved to be born into a system that does not care for poor people or to be killed by the people whom we expect to protect us. Mutiso did not deserve to be extra-judicially executed.”  The opportunity for BBI to have decisively transformed the security sector may be over, but the problems remain. We must demand that all follow public health guidelines but those arrested must be treated equally, humanely and have the right to representation, bail and their moment in court. Mask and curfew violations are misdemeanours not death sentences.  We must empower citizens to provide actionable intelligence to IPOA, KNCHR and human rights organisations. While recognising the responsiveness of the Internal Affairs Unit in the case of the Kianjokoma brothers, the police must not police itself on human rights violations.  This must remain the preserve of IPOA. The Office of the President and Interior Ministry must maintain the level of urgency and policy oversight for all.  Police custody and stations cannot be spaces for extortion, torture, and violence and our officers must not become executioners. Kianjokoma has set a new standard for consequence management and a baseline below which we must not fall.  Irungu.houghton@amnesty.or.ke    NSL Action: Kenya Police 2-2 Modern Coast Rangers  Kidnappers Manhunt: Police probing kidnapping of 23-year-old Hafsa Mohamed rescued in Kayole  Matokeo ya ligi ya Taifa: Mathare United 0-1 Gor Mahia By Editorial | 8 hours ago By Mike Nyagwoka | 8 hours ago By Michael Kiptoo | 9 hours ago By Isaac Kalua Green | 9 hours ago