A suspected armed robber found himself in trouble after a couple he had gone to rob at Kaptegaa village in Endebess, Trans Nzoia, fought back and disarmed him.  The suspect is said to have stormed the house at around 9pm on Sunday brandishing an AK 47 rifle as the family was preparing to go to bed.  Everlyne Barasa said the suspect pointed the gun at her forehead and demanded Sh200,000.   “I was heading to the bedroom when the gunman stormed our house. He threatened to kill me, my husband and our three children if we didn’t give him the money. I knelt down, begging the hooded man not to harm us,” said the 51-year-old woman. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. Ms Barasa said the suspect said he was aware the family had sold land and that they had to give him the money or he would kill them.  Woman mysteriously dies at her father’s gravesite  Needy boy gives school cockerel to reduce his fees  Drama in Kiminini as two businessmen fight over woman  No minimum sentences for sex offenders and armed robbers   By this time, Barasa’s husband Philip Nakhisa, who had dozed off on a couch, had been awakened by the commotion. He kept his calm and the thug did not notice him on the sofa behind him.  “While still kneeling, begging him not to kill us, I saw my husband slowly rise up. I knew if I grabbed the thug by the knees, my husband would definitely jump in to help me,” Barasa said.  And in a twinkling of an eye, the woman pounced and the gunman found himself on the floor. Before he could do anything, Nakhisa had grabbed him. They took the gun away from him as they called for help.  Barasa said they pinned the suspect down until neighbours arrived.  They descended on the suspect with kicks and blows and he was only saved from the wrath of the residents by village elder Eunice Simiyu, who asked them not to kill him before she called the police.    The suspect later claimed the gun belonged to a Kenya Police Reserve officer who had reportedly sent him to rob the family.   He also listed people he claimed were his accomplices, adding one who had accompanied him for the mission fled when he was caught.  Residents decried increased insecurity in the area, with burglary and theft of livestock being the most common forms of crime.  Ms Simiyu said: “We also handed his cell phone to DCI officers for further investigations as the suspect was taken away by the police.  Area OCPD Salesioh Muriithi said they have already launched investigations into the attack.  “Among other things, we are seeking to find out if the gun has been used in previous crimes in this area, including a recent attack on an M-Pesa shop where the owner lost money,” said Muriithi.      Morning Express Sports Chat 9th May 2016 Trans Nzoia Sports Association  Mwanamke Ngangari: Seneta mteule Bi. Zipporah Kittony  Strathmore drill victim Esther Kidambi laid to rest in Aruba village, Sinyereri, Trans Nzoia County By Fred Kibor | 8 hours ago By Mercy Kahenda | 8 hours ago By Kennedy K Gachuhi | 8 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 20 hours ago