A government agency has lauded Kisumu County’s preparations to host the upcoming investor conference. The county government hopes to use the conference planned for September 26-29 to market various investment opportunities in the region.  The county hopes to attract investors into various sectors including agriculture, manufacturing, industrialisation, sports, health, culture and talent development, film, tourism, infrastructure and energy among others, according to local officials.  The management of Kenya Investment Authority (KenInvest) on Tuesday said it was pleased by the preparations so far and that it looked forward to a successful conference. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. “Going by the organisation of pre-conference events, the county is well prepared to host the conference,” said KenInvest Managing Director Moses Ikiara.  How call center is aiding fight against Covid-19  Kisumu plans an investor conference in late September  Inside the IDP camp where flood victims go for days without food  Kisumu MCAs defend benchmarking trip to Arusha    He added: “I commend the county government for the infrastructure developments it has achieved ahead of the conference. They have already met development partners and are today (Tuesday) meeting government agencies.”  The county government team last Tuesday met members of the diplomatic community. The team has lined up two more meetings with the private sector and local business community ahead of the conference.  Dr Ikiara said his agency will also take advantage of the conference to lobby for private investment in the country.  “If you look at the Vision 2030, the target is to make sure private investment, as a share of Gross Domestic Product, is at least 24 per cent and experts can develop projects that will help us achieve that aspiration. When you see counties organising such conferences, we know it is going to help us in this course and we hope to see more investors take up opportunities in Kisumu,” said Ikiara, who was a member of the Vision 2030 board.  Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o said they have made necessary arrangements to ensure Covid-19 containment measures are observed.  “We have organised both virtual and physical meetings to be held at the spacious Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium. There will be breakaway tents, domes and cubicles and VIP pavilions among other conference facilities,” said Nyong’o.   Police holding 8 teenage girls found posing for nude photos at a Kisumu public park  CORD leader Raila Odinga and his brigade call for IEBC commission to quit office  Former Kisumu Rural MP and cabinet minister in KANU government, Wilson Ndolo Ayah is buried By James Omoro | 8 hours ago By Isaiah Gwengi | 1 day ago By Isaiah Gwengi | 3 days ago By Mactilda Seline Mbenywe | 4 days ago