Senator Ochilo Ayacko. [David Njaaga, Standard]  Migori Senator Ochilo Ayacko has vowed to pick his deputy governor from the Kuria community.  The senator who was crowned as a Kuria elder and endorsed to run for the gubernatorial seat in 2022 on Sunday, said that he will pick an able Kuria man or woman to be his deputy.  “I will empower his or her office to be able to deliver the mandates of devolution across Migori County,” he said.  He is giving a second stab at the governor seat after losing to governor Okoth Obado in the 2017 elections.  Judge declines to order a firm to pay 106 investors Sh107 million  Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria acquitted in assault case  IEBC dismisses Kuria's claims of missing KIEMS kits   Manhunt for policeman who assaulted, pricked his wife's genitals with nails The senator has followed the footsteps of his political rival Obado who was crowned by the Kuria elders as he picked the now deputy governor Mwita Mahanga from the Kuria community ahead of the 2013 elections.  Ayacko also for peace and unity in the county with over eight tribes ahead of General Election. “I believe we can witness a steady transition of power devoid of political skirmishes witnessed in the past,” Ayacko said.  The county was once classified among violence hot spots after it witnessed violence during the 2017 elections.  Others in the race to succeed Obado include former Cabinet minister Dalmas Otieno, former MPs John Dache Pesa (Migori), Edick Anyanga (Nyatike), businessmen  Phillip Ogari Mwabe, Owiso Ngao, Prof Mark Ogutu, Migori County Secretary Christopher Rusana and Speaker Boaz Okoth.   UDA and People's Empowerment Party headed for collision with both eyeing vacant Kiambaa seat  David Murathe: I think the next step should be for us to kick Moses out of the party | #NEWSHOUR  The Purge Continues: Jubilee party now targets Kuria & Mbarire, party to revisit cases of 5 Senators By Kamau Ngotho | 18 seconds ago By Sunday Standard team | 30 minutes ago By Oscar Obonyo and Julius Chepkwony | 1 hour ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 2 hours ago