Some 14,000 students who excelled in high school have opted to give public universities a wide berth. [Courtesy]  High school students are giving university a wide berth, it’s a good sign for those who care  Some 14,000 students who excelled in high school have opted to give local, public universities a wide berth. Well, some have gone abroad on scholarship, while others have joined private universities in the country. Others are opting to join local, tertiary colleges, which were previously seen as less prestigious.  But these students are well schooled, so they know one cannot eat prestige or invoke it in their resume. They know employers are looking for practical, hands-on experience and that’s in good supply in tertiary colleges. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. The snub has plunged mainstream universities into some panic, but what’s needed is more than that. It should provoke serious soul-searching. What’s the purpose of knowledge, and in whose service should it be deployed?  Six city schools under probe as parents decry illegal charges   Standard Group will continue to champion TVET, says CEO  Top students pick TVET courses as 465,765 can't be accounted for  Students given 30 days to change university, courses One standout about the usefulness of education as a public good was the Mavoko cemetery land heist. Public officials, almost all of them university-educated, conspired to steal from the public.  And they must have attended the same school, as they displayed a similar attitude. The deal in question was a parcel to expand public cemetery, so they had no compunction about stealing from the dead. A marketer searched for the land.  A land surveyor confirmed its size. A valuer affirmed its value. A soil specialist affirmed its topography. A lawyer drew up a contract. A manager approved. A more senior technocrat signed. And another. A banker wired the cash. And this sleight came and went.  Well, the youth are the future of this country, and 14,000 of them have a different attitude towards education. It might not be much, but it means a lot.   Newly appointed KNEC board holds its first meeting  Prof George Magoha achaguliwa kuwa mwenyekiti wa bodi ya baraza la mtihani  Kenya National Association of Parents declared illegal and irrelevant by Ministry of Education By Anastasia Wahome | 7 hours ago By Michael Ndonye | 7 hours ago By Editorial | 7 hours ago By Peter Kimani | 14 hours ago