The late Mzee Ajwang Nyakwamba. [Courtesy]  ODM chief Raila Odinga has mourned Mzee Ajwang Nyakwamba; the father to the late Otieno Kajwang, Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang and Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang, who died on Wednesday evening.   In his message of comfort, Odinga said Mzee Ajwang exemplified the dignity of Luo traditions.  “I am deeply saddened by his death but grateful for having known and shared precious moments with him,” said Odinga in a tweet. “He was a respected community leader, educationist and Church elder recognized as such by all.”  Others who shared their condolences are Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, Homabay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, CAS David Osiany and Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi.  Come clean on Museveni links, ODM leaders tell deputy president  Raila's Nyanza rally postponed over Covid fears  Raila isolated as three principals drive the last nail in Nasa coffin   Fourth industrial revolution will be driven by technology – Raila Governor Ngilu mourned, “My deepest condolences to Homabay Senator Moses Otieno Kajwang and Ruaraka legislator TJ Kajwang as you mourn the loss of your father Mwalimu Ajwang' Nyakwamba. To the entire Nyakwamba family, Mungu awafariji wakati huu mugumu. May his soul rest in eternal peace.”  While Kidero, in his message to the family, stated, “My deep and heartfelt condolences to Hon Moses Kajwang and Hon TJ Kajwang for the loss of your father Japuonj Ajwang’ Nyakwamba. May the Almighty God grant strength, courage and comfort to your family.”  Wanga prayed for God's comfort to the family saying Homa Bay was united in grief mourning the patriarch. “Poleni sana Hon TJ Kajwang', Senator Moses Kajwang', Dr Ray Kajwang' and the entire Nyakwamba family. May Mzee Rest in peace. He will be dearly missed.”  “A reputed and respected retired teacher, devout Seventh Day Adventist elder and dedicated community leader. Blest to have fathered 3 parliamentarians and an MCA as well as other great children. Condolences to my brothers and friends Sen. Moses Otieno Kajwang & Hon. TJ Kajwang for the loss of jaduong. We shall meet in the glorious morning,” added Osiany.  Wandayi eulogised: “To my colleagues and friends; Hon TJ Kajwang, Hon Moses Kajwang and the people Homa Bay County, please accept my sincerest condolences and that of the people of Ugunja Constituency following the passing of Mzee David Ajwang Nyakwamba. We pray at this time of sadness that you may find fortitude and comfort, and that Mzee's soul may rest in peace.”  News of Mzee Ajwang’s death was first announced by Senator Kajwang, who December 2019 – alongside Peter Kajwang - lost his mother Dorcas Ajwang, 83, after suffering from pneumonia.  “The patriarch has rested. Mzee David Ajwang' Nyakwamba. May your soul wait in peace Japuonj!” shared Senator Kajwang.        Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens  Raila Odinga has given the clearest indication yet that he is ready to work with One Kenya Alliance  Raila Odinga: Hio NASA kazi yake ilikwisha, lakini huko mbele tutakuja pamoja By Kamau Muthoni | 4 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 4 hours ago By Philip Mwakio | 4 hours ago By Mactilda Mbenywe | 4 hours ago