Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Senator James Orengo meet with DCI Director George Kinoti at the DCI Headquarters yesterday over the ownership of a 200-acre Yatta land. [Dennis Kavisu, Courtesy]  Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka yesterday launched a scathing attack against Deputy President William Ruto for questioning how he acquired a 200-acre Yatta land.  Vowing to sue the DP, Kalonzo said he was innocent of accusations lodged against him over the ownership of the land linked to the National Youth Service (NYS).  Walking out of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) headquarters less than an hour after arriving at 10.30am, the Wiper leader accused Ruto of peddling “lies” intended to “create an artificial reality for Kenyans.”  DP William Ruto tells Amason Kingi to abandon plans to form Coast party ahead of 2022  What to do with Ruto? Uhuru's dilemma and why spat with DP is written in history  Turkish national linked to Ruto not our client, says Equity Bank  Kalonzo Musyoka at DCI over Yatta land grabbing claims “I made available all relevant documentation required to investigate this matter thoroughly to DCI.    “This is the correct approach that should be taken when false utterances are made against leaders. The truth illuminated itself and the lies have been exposed,” he added.  Kalonzo said the DCI had found zero evidence of wrongdoing on his part regarding the ownership of the land.  He said his decision to seek clearance from the DCI was informed by his move to seek the presidency in 2022.  Kalonzo is a member of the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) alongside Amani National Congress’s Musalia Mudavadi, Kanu chairman Gideon Moi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula.  “At the moment, I am not in government. I am working to lead this nation so as to champion human rights and protect wealth for the future well-being of this country,” he said.  In January, the DP had taken on the Wiper leader, saying the only thing he had to show after years in government and leadership was the land which he claimed was grabbed.  This didn’t sit well with the Wiper leader, who presented himself to the DCI seeking to have the matter investigated. He also dared the DP to do the same.  Yesterday, Kalonzo accompanied by his legal team led by Siaya Senator James Orengo and his Makueni counterpart Mutula Kilonzo Jnr, is reported to have received a report from the DCI, affirming Kalonzo as the owner of the land.  Although the report was not made public, the Wiper leader said the DCI investigation affirmed his principles and values in life. “Indeed, hard work pays”.  The Wiper leader was invited yesterday to give further clarification on the matter.  “Just arrived at the Director of Criminal Investigations accompanied by my legal team to honour the summons,” Kalonzo stated earlier.  “We are here over a complaint we lodged in January this year and the DCI has given us a report on the probe,” said Orengo.  Kalonzo said to demonstrate his commitment to the war against corruption, he will establish an office of the protector of public interest.  The Wiper leader called for lifestyle audits on all those wishing to run for public office. “I cannot fathom a country where corruption becomes a way of life. We will wage an aggressive war against all those who have impoverished our country through relentless looting,” said the former vice president.   Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana  DP William Ruto has been stopped from travelling to Uganda where he was headed for a private visit  Wabunge 3 Tana River washinikiza wananchi kumuunga mkono Naibu Rais William Ruto | MBIU YA KTN (2) By Patrick Beja | 6 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 6 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 6 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 6 hours ago