Deputy President Wiliam Ruto has urged leaders to focus on reviving the economy. [Courtesy]  Deputy President William Ruto has criticised talks of amending the constitution after the 2022 General Election, saying it was time to focus on how to revive the economy.  This comes days after the Appellate Court upheld the High Court’s decision that rendered the BBI process unconstitutional, null and void.  Speaking during a meeting with grassroots and political leaders at the Western Economic Bloc Forum in Naivasha, Ruto accused other leaders (without mentioning names) of making a political career from changing constitutions.  “After the collapse of the BBI, they told us they will do it after next year’s election. They have always engaged us on this matter (Amending the constitution),” the DP noted.  CS Mucheru says DP Ruto champions outdated solutions to major economic challenges  DP William Ruto hits out at rivals, says they lack agenda  Legislators call on BBI proponents to embrace verdict  Uhuru dares Ruto to resign  “They should know that there is Kenya outside changing the constitution,” he added.  The DP also said the country had moved on and that it was time for leaders to focus on reviving and stabilizing the country’s economy.  “There is no superior idea than others. Once we agree on what needs to be done, then we can chart a way forward for the country,” he concluded.  Earlier, he had criticised the proponents of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI), saying power and influence was not enough  “Don’t use your power for selfish reasons to help those capable and hurt those without jobs,” he said.  On Friday, August 20, the Court of Appeal Judges that President Uhuru Kenyatta’s attempt to change the Constitution through the BBI process was unconstitutional bringing an end to the proposed constitutional amendments.  However, pro-BBI politicians have maintained they will respect the third arm of the government’s decision, insisting reggae had not stopped.   Exploring the preparedness and the key timeliness of the IEBC to conduct the 2022 General Elections  Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana  DP William Ruto has been stopped from travelling to Uganda where he was headed for a private visit By George Njunge and Fidelis Kabunyi | 4 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 4 hours ago By Nehemiah Okwembah | 4 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 4 hours ago