Prof. Bobby Wishitemi died on Sunday, August 15, 2021. [Courtesy]  Former Deputy Vice-Chancellor in charge of Academics, Research and Extension at Moi University, Prof. Bobby Wishitemi, has died.  Wishitemi died on Sunday mid-morning, August 15, at the Eldoret Hospital in Uasin Gishu County, his colleague at Moi University, Prof. Nathan Ogechi told The Standard.  According to Wishitemi’s close friend, Gregory Lwangu, the don was in good health, and only complained of “feeling unwell” while heading to Eldoret Town from his Kimumu home on Sunday morning. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. “He took breakfast and thereafter hailed a taxi to take him to the central business district. On the way, he said he was feeling unwell. As a result, the taxi driver made a U-turn and took the Prof. home,” said Lwangu.  Upon arriving at the lecturer’s home in Kimumu on the Iten-Eldoret Road, one of Wishitemi’s sons took him to hospital using the family car, but the ex-DVC died upon arrival at the private hospital’s emergency section.  A family member, who spoke to The Standard in confidence, said Wishitemi was diabetic and occasionally suffered hypertension.  “Prof. was diagnosed with diabetes three years ago, leading to the amputation of his left leg following a medical doctor’s advice,” said the informant.  Moi University Deputy Vice-Chancellor in charge of Students’ Affairs, Prof. Nathan Ogechi, termed Wishitemi’s death as a “huge loss to Moi University”.  “We will miss his wise counsel. He was indeed an astute educationist who mentored many students,” said Prof. Ogechi.  Wishitemi’s death comes three years after he lost his wife, Prof. Naomi Wishitemi, to cancer.  Naomi was a senior Kiswahili lecturer at Moi University.  Bobby Wishitemi’s body is being preserved at the Eldoret Hospital’s mortuary as family plans his burial.  Wishitemi, who has died aged 60, was a professor of Tourism and Wildlife Management.  He graduated with a Bachelor’s Degree in Botany and Education (First Class Honours) from the University of Nairobi (UoN) in 1981.  He was awarded a scholarship to pursue a Master of Science Degree in Biology at the same university between 1981 and 1983.  In 1985, he got a scholarship for his Doctorate studies at the Kenyatta University, where he graduated with a Ph.D in Biology of Conversation in 1989.  Prof. Wishitemi has been an external examiner at Makerere, Egerton, Maseno, Nairobi universities and the Kenya Wildlife Service Training Institute.  He also held various senior positions at the Moi University.  He is survived by six children.   By Stephen Rutto | 40 minutes ago By Lynn Kolongei | 7 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 10 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 15 hours ago