Construction of key infrastructure projects in Taita Taveta County has started.  The government is set to tarmac the Msau-Mbale-Werugha-Mgange-Bura road at a cost of Sh2 billion.  Also in the list of projects being implemented is the Sh425 million power station located in Wundanyi town.  Wundanyi MP Danson Mwashako said implementation of the key road project was historic since the area has been marginalised for many years in terms of infrastructure. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. Mwashako noted that successive governments have for long marginalised his constituency.  Uproar as MCAs linked to 750 acres of EPZ land  MCAs summon executive over delay in responding to petitions  Taita Taveta family holds funeral without deceased's body  Taita Taveta Governor's race heats up   Speaking over the weekend, the legislator said the electorate had constantly been complaining about neglect and marginalisation by successive governments.  Mr Mwashako said the contractor awarded the tender will soon establish a construction site in Wundanyi town to start rehabilitating the road.  The construction started in 2017 but stalled midway due to financial constraints.  The MP noted that his constituency has the worst road infrastructure, claiming that only one kilometre road had been tarmacked since Kenya attained independence in 1963.  “The constituency has only a one-kilometre tarmac road from Mbengonyi to Wundanyi town. The road was completed in the 1970s,” said Mwashako.  He said the rehabilitation of the road will enable horticultural and dairy farmers in Taita Hills to easily transport farm produce to market centres in Voi and Mombasa.  The MP said the national government is also constructing a Sh425 million power station in Wundanyi town which will be completed in December this year.  Mwashako noted frequent power blackouts in Wundanyi town and its environs will now be a thing of the past once the project is completed.  “Politicians will no longer use the road and frequent power blackouts to solicit votes. The two projects will be completed before 2022.”   Wakazi Kajiado wahimizwa kula matunda, Ukataji miti Taita Taveta, Yuko wapi Nkatha? | MBIU YA KTN  Taita Taveta County and National Government collaborate in drug administration in the county  Muslim faithful in Taita Taveta county share expectations on this year's Ramadhan celebrations By Joackim Bwana and Willis Oketch | 1 hour ago By Patrick Beja | 4 hours ago By Benard Sanga | 2 days ago By Benard Sanga | 3 days ago