NCCK General Secretary Chris Kinyanjui and chairman Timothy Ndambuki at Jumuiya Centre in Limuru. [George Njunge, Standard]  Clerics have called for a cease-fire between President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto following their severed relationship.  The clerics under the National Council of Churches of Kenya (NCCK) said yesterday the two leaders should iron out their differences for the sake of the country.  Led by the NCCK General Secretary Canon Chris Kinyanjui, the church leaders said the president and his deputy should show a good example to the nation by reconciling.    Secret calls that led to removal of Ruto's elite GSU security team  Raila warms up in effort to 'climb' the mountain  DP William Ruto: I am not responsible for BBI defeat  Why president should avoid media interviews like a plague “Dialogue is the best route to peace and cohesive relationship; the opposite only brews trouble and tension,” said Rev Kinyanjui.  The relationship between President Kenyatta and his deputy hit rock-bottom early in the week after the Head of State openly asked the DP to resign if he is dissatisfied working with him.  The frosty relationship between the two was at the centre of the talk by the NCCK.  On August 26, the DP's security detail was overhauled, with the General Service Unit being replaced by the elite team from the Administration Police guarding government meetings.  The replacement of Dr Ruto's security saw his office write a protest letter to the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai seeking an explanation.  But in a rejoinder, the National Police Service spokesperson Bruno Shioso said the change was a normal reassignment of duties within the police service to enhance efficiency.  "The Presidential Escort Unit continues to provide close protection security to the DP," he said in a press statement.  The withdrawal extends to Ruto's residences in Karen, Hardy and Sugoi.  Yesterday, the NCCK called upon all Kenyans to do all in their power to prevent a repeat of the violence cycle usually witnessed around election time.  The clerics said that Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission should be properly constituted in the shortest time possible for adequate and timely preparations for next year's General Election.  “Nobody should interfere with the date of next year's General Election," Kinyanjui said.   Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana  DP William Ruto has been stopped from travelling to Uganda where he was headed for a private visit  Wabunge 3 Tana River washinikiza wananchi kumuunga mkono Naibu Rais William Ruto | MBIU YA KTN (2) By James Wanzala | 50 minutes ago By Allan Mungai | 1 hour ago By Standard Team | 7 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 7 hours ago The grey areas in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s quest for a successor to secure his legacy