The bodies of four security guards were found dumped behind the respective shops they were manning in Siranga trading centre in Ugenya, Siaya County.  Eyewitnesses said the bodies discovered about 50 metres from Siranga Police Post had deep cuts on their heads, hands and legs.  County police commander Michael Muchiri said officers were investigating the incident.  "I can confirm that four security guards were murdered on Sunday night," said Muchiri.    Man arrested for allegedly hacking disabled son to death  Police officer kills colleague in Laikipia  Suspect in the murder of four in Kitengela to detained for 10 days, court says  Prime suspect behind murder of four men in Kitengela arrested Ukwala chief Michael Osodo said two shops were also broken into, and property whose value is yet to be established stolen.  Ugenya MP David Ochieng condemned the incident and called for speedy investigations over the incident that has caused fear in the area.  At the scene, a confrontation ensued between the police and the public. Residents blamed the officers for their laxity in apprehending the criminals.  The police had a hard time containing the crowd that barred them from picking the bodies to be ferried to a nearby mortuary.  "We want the OCPD and other senior police officials in Ugenya Sub-county transferred. They are not putting in more efforts to stop the frequent insecurity incidents," said Michael Onyango, a boda boda rider in Siranga.  Daniel Juma, a resident and politician, called on the Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i to quickly address the indiscipline at Siranga police post, and if possible, ensure a new team of police officers is deployed in the area.  "This will help with cooperation between the major police station in Ukwala and the police post in Siranga. The police officers working at the main station have complained about the police post," said Juma.  This incident comes only a month later after two security guards at hardware and shop in Alego Usonga Sub-county were hacked to death.   Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death  The widow of Jacob Juma has accused police of dragging their feet in the hunt for Juma’s killers By Edwin Nyarangi and James Omoro | 21 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 22 hours ago By Erick Abuga | 23 hours ago By Anne Atieno | 1 day ago