Inspector-General of Police, Hilary Mutyambai was responding to questions from members of the public following an expose by controversial blogger Edgar Obar. [File, Standard]  Inspector-General of Police, Hilary Mutyambai, on Monday said a team of detectives have been dispatched to deal with the rising cases of money laundering involving gold and fake money commonly known as ‘wash wash’ in Nairobi.  Speaking during his #EngagetheIG forum, Mutyambai said the Serious Crimes Protection Unit (SCPU) from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) has begun hunting the suspects, adding that some of them have been arrested and arraigned.   “We have a unit under DCI that deals with serious crime and continues to arrest perpetrators,” he said.  Mutyambai who was responding to concerns raised by members of the public, warned Kenyans mostly the youth against joining what he described as get-rich-quick schemes, saying it was illegal.  Integrity law has failed to subdue politicians but who is to blame?  Two criminals killed in Kilimani shootout  Enforce Covid-19 protocols, IG Mutyambai orders police  DCI urged to speed up Stuchburry murder probe The IG was responding to questions from members of the public following an expose by controversial blogger Edgar Obare who claimed there are individuals who engage in ‘wash wash’.  Obare through his Instagram account claimed there are Kenyans involved in “wash wash” who live lavish life and parade their opulences on social media.  Obare’s Instagram account was deactivated on Sunday. The reason is still unclear.  Missing persons  Regarding missing persons, the IG challenged members of the public to provide the police with information that will lead to the discovery of the victims dead or alive.  “We continue to treat cases of missing persons as such until otherwise discovered, we welcome any leads from members of the public who may have information on missing persons.”  He also warned police officers against brutality and excessive use of force while handling ordinary Kenyans while on duty, saying in the event of any death, every officer will be held personally for any loss of life.  “Every officer is held personally liable for any loss of life, we have internal mechanisms to deal with excessive use of force,” he said.  He said officers found engaging in crime or brutalizing citizens will be fired and taken to court to answer the charges.  “Nobody is above the law, we continue to weed out the few who commit crimes within the service in accordance with the law.”  The IG also put on notice thugs using get-away motorbikes to mug people mostly in the city, saying their days were numbered.  He said the National Police Service has formed an anti-mugging squad to deal with rising cases of motorbike crimes.  “We have an anti-mugging squad specifically formed to deal with crime,” he said urging members of the public to indicate the exact spot of the crimes while reporting such cases to police.   8 bloggers present themselves to CID to answer to various charges  Several bloggers to appear at CID to answer to charges of various alleged crimes  Detained journalist Yassin Juma released as 10 bloggers summoned to appear before CID By Reuters | 9 hours ago By Elvince Joshua | 3 days ago By Brian Okoth | 3 days ago By Kamore Maina | 3 days ago