Section of Kitengela town, Kajiado County. [Peterson Githaiga, Standard]  My county is inviting views on its proposal to “elevate” my village of Kitengela into a municipality. What this fancy language means is that we shall pay land rates on what’s presently freehold.  I hear county authorities are obligated to offer certain core services, namely: water and sewerage, and build and light the streets. And there are certain freedoms that we shall forfeit, such as rearing pigs and cows (I have a neighbour who has the latter), while another has commercial-scale chicken enterprise.  Cows and sows would be a welcome break, but what about the industries that smoke day and night, emitting into the atmosphere life-threatening metals? This newspaper highlighted those hazards only last month, but the county was silent on measures to mitigate those risks. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. It’s strange that county authorities have been silent on the widely-reported public health breaches, even though scientists have revealed there are simple technologies that can considerably minimise air pollution and save lives.  Police yet to arrest suspect who killed woman, hid her body  Police ordered to shoot and kill livestock thieves  Outrage over boda boda rider’s death in Kajiado  Quarries expose Kitengela residents to chest problems, risks of getting cancer Besides, county folks are aware that change in land use has turned this once industrial district into residential hubs. Obviously, something has to give.  One low-hanging fruit for this “municipality to be” is to clear the clogged roads in the township. That doesn’t require sophisticated technologies, only common sense, but I guess that’s no longer common.    Missing 11-year-old girl found dead in Olmaa, Kajiado County, she has been missing since 4th April  Police in Kitengela arrested a bodaboda operator over the kidnapping & murder of an 8-year-old girl  Over 60,000 residents in Kajiado County to benefit from the Oloitoktok water and Sewerage project By Peter Kimani  | 10 hours ago By Erick Ogello | 17 hours ago By Peter Kimani | 17 hours ago By Editorial | 22 hours ago