Meru County Water Executive Mary Mwiti Agriculture CS Peter Munya and PNU Secretary General John Anunda at Mutuati Health Centre.[Peter Muthomi,Standard]  Party of National Unity (PNU) that swept former President Kibaki to power for his second term is planning to relaunch ahead of next year’s elections.  PNU has lined up several political activities as it seeks to enter into an alliance with other parties.  The party leadership is tomorrow expected to meet with Safina and Democratic Party (DP) officials to explore chances of entering into a deal. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. PNU national chairman David Kamau said they have resolved to work with like-minded parties in what is likely to have a bearing on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s succession.  On Ukambani politics, keep a close eye on Johnston Muthama  Leaders of seven Mt Kenya parties to meet today for 2022 unity talks  Defining moment as OKA leaders retreat to craft election roadmap  Kituyi yet to find footing in local politics “We have planned for a meeting on Wednesday with Safina and DP to basically explore how we can work together going into the next year’s General Election,” said Mr Kamau.  He announced that the party plans to open offices in all the 47 counties as part of plans to revamp the outfit formed by Kibaki in September 2007.  Kamau announced that the party has planned a series of countrywide activities that will culminate in celebrations to mark PNU’s 14th anniversary.  This comes as political realignment takes shape in Mt Kenya, which has been turned into a battleground by front runners in the presidential contest.  Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga are banking on the region’s support to win the presidency.  The latest development comes barely days after Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua, The Service Party leader Mwangi Kiunjuri and Chama Cha Kazi's Moses Kuria announced plans to bring together like-minded parties from the region to present a united front in the elections.  “We also commit to reaching out to other like-minded leaders to broaden the forum and deepen our unity of purpose. In the next three months, the initiative will culminate in the Limuru Three conference where we would make resolutions of how to conduct our affairs,” said Mr Karua.  PNU survived disbandment in the run up to 2017 polls when 13 parties agreed to dissolve to form the ruling Jubilee Party.   Exploring the preparedness and the key timeliness of the IEBC to conduct the 2022 General Elections  Kenyan government takes over preparations for state burial of former First Lady Lucy Kibaki  GRAFT DIARIES DISCUSSION: 60 Day Graft Deadline expires By Jacob Ngetich  | 19 seconds ago By Standard Team | 19 seconds ago By Patrick Vidija | 42 minutes ago By Winfrey Owino | 3 hours ago