Health experts have warned that Kenya could be on the brink of a catastrophic fourth wave of Covid-19 if nothing is done to tame the lethal Delta variant now spreading in most parts of the country.   However, we need not panic. As a country, we can still beat the virus by reinforcing adherence to the stipulated health protocols through wearing face masks, hand hygiene, social distancing and avoiding crowding.   Unfortunately, quite a good number of Kenyans are not strictly adhering to these measures, with many ignoring simple measures like regularly washing or sanitising their hands. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. Yet this has been proven to be a highly effective way of keeping harmful microbes at bay and not just the virus that causes Covid-19.  Is it okay to allow matatus to carry at full capacity?  Arrest these fraudsters  It's not yet time for PSVs to go back to normal  Schools that mentored Olympians toast to glory as questions on performance raised According to the US Centre for Disease Control, handwashing reduces the number of people who get sick with diarrhea by 23-40 per cent.   With less than five per cent of the population fully vaccinated, we cannot say that as a country, we have achieved the desired level of herd immunity to significantly halt person-to-person spread of the virus. Observing simple preventive measures is for now our best weapon against this dangerous disease.   A lot of effort has been expended on ensuring access to sanitation amenities especially since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic.  Companies like ourselves have been part of these efforts in partnership with other actors, for instance, donating sanitisers and handwashing equipment for general public use.  In addition, we believe combating disease requires innovative, affordable products that promote the health and wellbeing of consumers and encourage preventive behaviour.    We need to learn from countries that have borne the brunt of the pandemic through heavy loss of life. Some of them boast advanced health systems but are now overwhelmed, a painful reminder of our own vulnerability, considering the weak state of our public health infrastructure.  We cannot afford a disruptive fourth wave of the virus in Kenya and must do everything to avert it.     With the number of Covid-19 infections in Kenya now at over 192,000 and over 3,700 deaths, the virus continues its deadly march in our midst.  We must be extra vigilant and embrace habits geared to prevention. Adhering to the health protocols will not cost you much but ignoring them could end your life.   Ministry of Health receives 180,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine as a donation from Gov't of Greece  HEALTH WATCH: How Covid-19 misinformation worldwide has created panic by misleading masses  KEMRI makes a breakthrough in the fight against Covid-19 by developing a Virus Transport Media (VTM) By Suleiman Shahbal | 7 hours ago By Kibe Mungai | 7 hours ago By Cynthia Kariuki  | 7 hours ago By Shiphrah Kuria  | 7 hours ago