Council of Governors chairperson Martin Wambora speaking during the State of Devolution address on June 29, 2021. [File, Standard]  The 7th annual Devolution Conference scheduled for August 23-26 in Makueni has been postponed.  The Council of Governors (CoG) says the postponement is a result of the presidential directive issued on Wednesday, August 18, extending the ban on political gatherings for another 60 days.  The conference was to take place at the Makueni Boys’ High School from Monday to Thursday next week. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. “We are living in unprecedented times which require all of us to put our health and that of others first for the safety and prosperity of our country,” said CoG chairperson Martin Wambora.  Hoteliers eye more business as devolution conference nears  Only 1,000 fully vaccinated delegates for devolution meet  Only 1,000 vaccinated delegates for devolution conference  Devolution Conference to be held once every 2 years starting 2022 The new devolution dates will be announced later, the Council said.  Parents whose children are learning at Makueni Boys’ High School were on Thursday informed that the learners won’t break for mid-term this week as had earlier been communicated.  “The Devolution Conference scheduled between August 23-26 at our school grounds has been postponed indefinitely. Consequently, the students will not break for mid-term as earlier anticipated. Instead, they will be released for mid-term next week on Wednesday, August 25 at 6:30 am and will be expected back on August 31 by 4 pm,” said Makueni Boys’ High School principal in a communication to all parents.  While announcing that plans for holding the devolution conference were underway, CoG Vice-Chairperson James Ongwae said on August 12 that the number of delegates to attend the seminar in Makueni had been reduced from 6,000 to 1,000 in compliance with Covid-19 safety rules.  The theme for the now-postponed conference was climate change.   Death in a Cell: 29-year-old student allegedly committed suicide while in police custody in Makueni  Governor Martin Wambora locked horns with members of the Senate health committee over Covid funds  Afisa Kortini: Aliyekuwa OCS Makueni ashtakiwa madai ya kuchukua hongo na matumizi mabaya ya ofisi By Brian Okoth | 24 minutes ago By Betty Njeru | 55 minutes ago By The Standard | 4 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 5 hours ago