Fourteen Ethiopians have been arrested in Kirinyaga county after their vehicle was involved in an accident.  It is suspected they were being trafficked to or through Kenya.   They were arrested on Saturday evening at Kibirigwi village, Kirinyaga West Sub-County Police Commander Martha Ng'etich said. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. He added that the foreigners included 10 children aged between 12 and 13.  Health gets largest share as Kirinyaga MCAs approve Sh6.6 billion budget  Relief for Ngiricis as court stops auctioneers from seizing items over Sh5m debt  Four found guilty of robbery with violence, sentenced to death   Kirinyaga delegates back Gideon Moi’s bid for top seat "When we checked the vehicle we found four adults [foreigners] while the rest were children," she said.  The 14 were in transit to Nairobi before the car crash. No one was hurt in the incident.  When the accident happened, residents alerted the police who rushed to the scene only to find the Ethiopians trapped inside and rescued them.  The crash victims, who could not speak English or Kiswahili, were taken to Baricho Police Station where they are being held pending arraignment.  Ng'etich said the Ethiopians will be charged with being in the country illegally.  "They had no documents allowing them to be in Kenya and they must face the law," she said.  The police said two Kenyans believed to have been involved in the suspected human trafficking incident were also arrested and are being questioned.  Ng'etich told the residents to continue supporting the police in exposing illegal immigrants sneaking into the country.   Zaidi ya wafanyabiashara 300 kunufaika Kirinyaga, Mrundiko wa Kesi | MBIU YA KTN (Sehemu ya Pili)  Coffee farmers from Kirinyaga county set to benefit from value-addition machines  Kirinyaga & Narok listed as counties with most opaque budgets after scoring zero points in survey By Muriithi Mugo | 3 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 20 hours ago By Philip Muasya | 1 day ago By Abdimalik Hajir | 2 days ago