Members of the Nakuru County Assembly have approved a Sh23.2 billion budget for the 2021/22 financial year.  Budget and Appropriation Committee Chairman Joel Karuri tabled the budget on Tuesday in a heated session during which the MCAs piled pressure on the executive to speedily implement it.  In the budget, the county government estimated its expenditure at Sh17.4 billion with an additional roll-over allocation for ongoing projects of Sh5.6 billion from the 2020/21 financial year.  The county has allocated the lion’s share of the budget to the Health Department, which will receive Sh7.5 billion (32.6 per cent) followed by Roads and Infrastructure Department at Sh2.7 billion (11.7 per cent).  Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey.   Mediation fails to settle Sh40m property dispute  Five dead in Nakuru after drinking illicit brew, 12 in hospital  Gideon: Let's maintain unity ahead of elections  Three key players leave Nakuru Queens for league champions Thika Queens The County Assembly, Treasury and Education departments have been allocated Sh1.5 billion each while the Water, Agriculture and Lands departments will receive Sh1.4 billion, Sh1.3 billion and Sh1.2 billion, respectively.  “The budget will be financed from a projected local revenue collection and facility improvement fund of Sh3.38 billion, Sh1.4 billion conditional grants and equitable revenue share from National Treasury at Sh13 billion,” said Karuri.   From the Sh17.4 billion for expenditure, the county government will spend Sh7.3 billion (42.3 per cent) on compensation for employees, Sh4.2 billion (24.4 per cent) on recurrent expenditure and Sh5.8 billion (33.3 per cent) on development expenditure.   The Kenya Urban Support Programme (KUSP), which had ended in 2019/2020 has bounced back, with Nakuru County expected to receive Sh429.7 million.   “This urban development grant will be shared between two municipalities; Nakuru will get Sh293.4 million and Sh136.3 million for Naivasha,” said Karuri.   With Sh1.4 billion pending bills, the Budget committee only appropriated Sh55 million in favour of outstanding tax arrears due to the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA).  To improve access to basic services, the World Bank under the Kenya Informal Settlement Improvement Project (KISIP) second phase has granted the county Sh300 million.  The MCAs approved an expenditure of Sh45 million for the pyrethrum revival programme, with a target of distributing over 13 million seedlings to 2,360 farmers covering 590 acres.   The MCAs, who have only this financial year to implement their projects before the campaign period kicks in, called on the executive to hasten procurement for the budgeted projects.   Dundori MCA Michael Machembu lauded the Budget committee for not allocating finances for procurement of road works machinery and instead called for the hiring of the equipment.   “I am glad that this financial year we had no allocation for purchase of machines. Those bought in previous financial years have been lying idle after breaking down. It is time the county outsources them,” said Machembu.   Morendat MCA Peter Njoroge called for speedy disbursement of Sh40.4 million allocated for bursaries in the last financial year for 22 wards.   Serikali ya kaunti ya Nakuru yatoa pendekezo la kuzuia uvuvi katika ziwa Naivasha  KENHA urges Kenyans plying the Nairobi-Nakuru highway to use alternative routes  Tussle over the ownership of land in Ngongogeri, Nakuru threatening peace amongst disputing parties By Daniel Chege  | 55 minutes ago By Stephen Rutto | 9 hours ago By Kennedy K Gachuhi | 9 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 15 hours ago