Party leaders, L-R: Mwangi Kiunjuri (The Service Party of Kenya), Moses Kuria (People Empowerment Party) Martha Karua of Narc-Kenya during a retreat at Paleo Hotel in Thika, Muranga County, August 17, 2021. [Mose Sammy, Standard]  A section of Mt Kenya party leaders have formed two committees that will draft priorities of the region for the presidential candidates come 2022.  Led by Martha Karua (Narc Kenya) Moses Kuria (Chama Cha Kazi) and Mwangi Kiunjuri (The Service Party of Kenya) the leaders maintained they will endorse a leader who will accept to deliver priorities of the region.  Ms Karua explained that one technical committee will list the priorities of the region while the other will mobilise social, political, religious, opinion and business leaders which will give rise to Limuru Three meeting. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. "We urge leaders of various political parties with presence in this region to join us to solidify and consolidate our say. Be it ODM, Jubilee or UDA," Karua said.  Leaders of seven Mt Kenya parties to meet today for 2022 unity talks  Shaky mountain: How directionless Central has been exposed  IEBC extends election materials tender submission deadline  Why politicians are now flocking to Murang’a   The meeting in Thika brought together six political parties in the region and an association of former councillors. They resolved they would abandon their preferred presidential candidates for the sake of the unity of the region.  Karua defended the unity meeting amid claims by supporters of Deputy President William Ruto that they are tribal self-seekers.  "We have counties that have formed regional blocs to discuss the communities' interests. We are not doing anything against the law," she said.  Kuria said their association was neither a Tangatanga nor deep State affair and stressed that they were not afraid of being labelled tribalists.  "No presidential candidate will get Mt Kenya region for free. For those saying we want to sell the region to the highest bidder, we say yes and we have no apologies," he added.  The Gatundu South MP also responded to Ruto and his allies who maintain that they should join UDA. "We will not join your party and if you don't want our support just tell us, we shall not support you by force," Kuria said.  Kiunjuri said once they finalise the Mt Kenya wishlist, they will present it to presidential aspirants and that they will support whoever will agree to implement their agenda.  "We will not support a presidential candidate before knowing what we shall get in return. We are going to hunt and we are not aiming for an antelope but a buffalo," he said.  They described the meeting as a forum of political parties in Mt Kenya region, and said they will meet again after two weeks.  Political parties which were represented were Democratic Party represented by Esau Kioni, The New Democrats (TND) led by Thuo Mathenge and People's Party of Kenya (PPK)  Leaders behind other political parties from Mt Kenya region led by Peter Munya (PNU) and Mwangi Wa Iria (Usawa Kwa Wote) did not attend. Kuria said he had apologies from governors Kiraitu Murungi and Muthomi Njuki and National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi.   Senator Gideon Moi calls upon the Mt. Kenya region leaders to join the One Kenya Alliance  Rift in Mt. Kenya with Kikuyu Elders divided over Muturi's installation as spokesman of the region  Mt. Kenya Battle: Section of leaders from Mt. Kenya East threaten to chart their own political path By Jacob Ngetich  | 40 minutes ago By Moses Nyamori | 40 minutes ago By Antony Gitonga and Julius Chepkwony | 40 minutes ago By Kennedy K Gachuhi | 40 minutes ago