Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi has pledged to ensure independent institutions charged with fighting corruption are properly resourced in his administration.  Speaking during the launch of the economic pillar of his manifesto, Mudavadi said the country’s economic growth will only be achieved if corruption and mismanagement of resources are well managed.  He said the current allocation to institutions like the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC), Controller of Budget (CoB), Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (ODPP) and the Judiciary cannot enable the bodies to efficiently tackle corruption.  “It is a joke when we, as country, allocate a paltry Sh3 billion to EACC and expect the institution to meet its obligation and execute its mandate well. This is why corruption cases take long to prosecute, giving beneficiaries of graft time and the luxury to enjoy the fruits of corruption,” said Mudavadi. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey.   Musalia Mudavadi: I'm firmly in the race to State House  Did Raila snub Kalonzo, Mudavadi after Uhuru Mombasa talks?  Uhuru meets Raila, One Kenya Alliance leaders at State House- Mombasa  Without Nasa, can Raila still command support in regions? “Graft cannot be fought when institutions mandated to fight the vice are not well funded. This is why our economy will never improve because some few individuals are stealing and milking it dry. We must stop it and my government will stop it.”  The economic pillar forms part of Mudavadi’s four-point manifesto that he has formulated to help him transform the country when he ascends to the presidency.  In the pillar, the ANC boss intends to put in place measures to help mitigate against high and many taxes Kenyans are paying, and consequently ensure more money is left in the pockets of traders.  “Businesses have closed down or downsized, putting close to 2.5 million Kenyans out of employment. Five million more who depended on SME are out of livelihoods. Government cannot afford and owes suppliers billions of shillings..."   Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao  Musalia Mudavadi embarks on his charm offensive in the coast region ahead of the 2022 elections  Dr. Mukhisa Kituyi: We must slay the monster of corruption to save Kenya By Ndungu Gachane and Chris Thairu | 48 minutes ago By Special Correspondent | 3 hours ago By Roselyne Obala and Brian Otieno | 11 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo and James Omoro | 1 day ago