The political focus in Meru County has shifted to the Kiagu Ward by-election slated for October 14, as a section of major parties eye the seat.  The seat fell vacant after the death of Eunice Karegi, one of the only two elected female MCAs in the Meru County Assembly.  Karegi was elected on Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua's Maendelo Chap Chap Party.  The United Democratic Alliance (UDA) associated with Deputy President William Ruto will hold its nominations for the ticket on August 14.    Produce our son dead or alive, Meru leaders tell State over Mwenda Mbijjiwe  Scores arrested as Meru Polytechnic students protest election results  Kiraitu Murungi: Mt Kenya unlikely to produce next president  Court awards Sh1.5m to widower forced to spend night with wife’s corpse Meru senator Mithika Linturi said among the candidates that have expressed interest to vie using UDA are Dennis Kiogora Gituma, Simon Kiambi Ngaruni, Mawira Miriti Daniel, Richard Mwangi Marete, Jim Kimathi and Bonface Munene.  He said UDA is committed to a fair, free and transparent nomination process for it to have a candidate accepted by the people.  Flanked by Central Imenti MP Moses Kirima, the senator said there will e no favoritism in the nomination because UDA wanted to have a candidate who the Kiagu voters want.  Help us improve our website! “I am asking them to intensify campaigns to convince voters to vote for them, we shall have free and fair nominations," the Senator said.  The National Ordinary People’s Empowerment Union (Nopeu) associated with EALA MP Mpuru Aburi has settled on Mwenda Nchamba to fly its flag in the by-election.  Introducing Nchamba at Kaguma, Mr Aburi said the party was going for a win.  “We have our candidate, we are going for Kiagu and sure to win,” Mr Aburi said.  By yesterday, it was not clear whether the Restore and Build Kenya (RBK) which Governor Kiraitu said will represent the region’s interests in next year’s General Election, will field a candidate in the Kiagu by-election.  Some other political parties represented in Meru Assembly include Party of National Unity, Jubilee, Maendeleo Chap Chap, and Kenya Patriots Party.   Seneti yapitisha BBI, Mawakili Meru wameandamana, Wapi Jack Onyango?, Ukeketaji Narok | MBIU YA KTN  A form three student receiving treatment after sustaining serious burns after a dormitory fire  Saving Ngaya Forest By Betty Njeru | 5 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o  | 16 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 16 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 16 hours ago