Benson Melonyie Ole Mungai, behind last week's murder of four men in Kitengela, Kajiado county will remain in police custody for ten more days. [Peterson Githaiga, Standard]  The main suspect behind last week's murder of four men in Kitengela, Kajiado county will remain in police custody for ten more days.  On Tuesday, August 17, the 40-year-old, Benson Melonyie Ole Mungai, was arraigned before Magistrate Becky Cheloti at Kajiado Law Courts.  “I order the suspect be detained at Kitengela Police Station for ten more working days to allow detectives to complete their investigations,” Magistrate Cheloti said. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. He was arrested on Monday, August 16, evening at a hideout in Kitengela where it is alleged he had been hiding since the killings took place on Sunday, August 8.  Prime suspect behind murder of four men in Kitengela arrested  Rider who was to join four others lynched by Kitengela mob speaks out  IPOA, DPP crack whip on suspects of Kianjokoma brothers’ death   Man kills son over Sh500 milk sale The Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) had requested the court to allow them to hold him further, to give them time to complete investigations.  “Detectives are in pursuit of other suspects. Ole Mungai will remain in custody to furnish our detectives with information as the investigation is underway,” DCI said.  Fred Mureithi, 30, his younger brother Victor Mwangi who was celebrating his 25th birthday, and their two cousins Mike George, 29, and Nicholas Musa, 28 were lynched by angry villagers after allegedly mistaking them for cattle thieves.  Relatives of the four young men killed by villagers in Isinya, Kajiado have demanded justice though the family spokesman Joseph Macharia, an uncle, who has said the four were innocent.   Police in Kitengela arrested a bodaboda operator over the kidnapping & murder of an 8-year-old girl  Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death By Stephen Nzioka | 14 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 1 day ago By Jael Mboga | 1 day ago By Peterson Githaiga and Jacinta Mutura | 2 days ago