PSG star Kylian Mbappe [Courtesy]  Paris St Germain will only allow French star Kylian Mbappe to leave the club this summer, but only on their terms.  Mbappe has been on the rumoured wishlist of Real Madrid for years, and past reports strongly link the World Cup winner with a move to the Bernabeau. PSG Sporting director Leonardo Araujo has opened up to RMC Sport on the Mbappe situation, insisting the attacker would never leave the club for free.  “Mbappé wants to join Real Madrid and we will not hold him back. We said no to Madrid's first offer, but if our conditions are met, we'll see,” said Leonardo, once again adding fuel to the already heated transfer speculations.  Reports: Real Madrid make $188.11 million bid for Mbappe   Messi watches on as PSG make hard work of beating Strasbourg  PSG's signing of Messi rekindles debate on UEFA FFP rules  Lionel Messi: The man behind the legend  Lionel Messi signs two-year contract with PSG   Leonardo confirmed Real Madrid had made an offer of around 160 million euros, but said the offer was far from what they paid for him form Monaco.  “It seems like a strategy to try to get a NO from us, to show that they have tried everything and to wait for a year to get Mbappé for free. Kylian always promised he wouldn’t leave for free,” Leonardo said.  The director then opened the door to a Mbappe departure, saying he is unsure of how Real Madrid will react to their turned-down bid.  “Real Madrid bid for Mbappé seems like a strategy to show they were trying every way to sign Kylian and that’s it. They’ve been disrespectful, incorrect, illegal and unacceptable. We’re not accepting €160m. If he wants to go, it will be for our conditions. Real Madrid bid for Mbappé seems like a strategy to show they were trying every way to sign Kylian and that’s it. They’ve been disrespectful, incorrect, illegal and unacceptable. We’re NOT accepting €160m. If he wants to go, it will be for our conditions,” the PSG Sporting Director revealed.    By Robert Abong'o | 13 minutes ago By Robert Abong'o | 46 minutes ago By Washington Onyango | 2 hours ago By Washington Onyango | 3 hours ago