The late David Ajwang’ Nyakwamba and his wife the late Dorcas Akumu at their home. [James Omoro, Standard]  Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang's father, David Ajwang’ Nyakwamba, is dead.  Mzee Ajwang’ died on Wednesday evening after he was rushed to Mbita Sub-county Hospital. He was 89.  He is touted as the man whose family has produced the largest number of legislators in Luo Nyanza. Other than Moses, his other sons were former Homa Bay Senator Otieno Kajwang' and Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang'.  Most of the families that have produced more than one legislator in the region have two. An example is that of Jaramogi Oginga Odinga that has had ODM leader Raila Odinga and his brother Oburu Oginga. Another is of Rarieda MP Otiende Amolo and his sister Elizabeth Ongoro.  Jubilee and ODM revive plans for 2022 coalition  Opinion: Uhuru will be declared Kenya's best President ever come 2024  Fear as six unexploded mortar bombs discovered in Lake Victoria  Come clean on Museveni links, ODM leaders tell deputy president According to Moses, his father has been suffering from diabetes and hypertension.  “It is a sad day for us because we have lost the senior citizen. He has been suffering from chronic illnesses and has been managing them since 1985. He fell ill and died on arrival at the hospital,” he said.  Mzee Ajwang’ has been living in his home at Waondo Village in Mbita Sub-county after retiring as a teacher in 1985. He was born at Rapedhi village in Ndhiwa Sub-county, where his father Timotheo Nyakwamba was a pastor.  Help us improve our website! He started his education at Waondo Primary School in Mbita Sub-county in 1941 where he studied up to Standard Five.  He later joined Kamagambo Primary School before going to Uganda for secondary education and sat the final examination in Form Two.  Ajwang’ later joined Bugema Mission College in Uganda and graduated as a primary school teacher, grade PII. He taught in a number of primary schools, including Kaswanga in Mbita and Ranen in Migori County. Ajwang’ then went for an in service course and was promoted to teach at Homa Bay High School before being transferred to Mirogi Boys High School in Ndhiwa Sub-county.  He later became an education officer in charge of Mbita Division (currently Mbita and Suba sub-counties) and retired in 1985.  Raila described Ajwang’ as a man who exemplified the dignity of Luo traditions.  “I am deeply saddened by his death but grateful for having known and shared precious moments with him,” Odinga tweeted.  Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti and his Migori counterpart Okoth Obado eulogised Ajwang’ as an educationist.   Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens  Raila Odinga has given the clearest indication yet that he is ready to work with One Kenya Alliance  Raila Odinga: Hio NASA kazi yake ilikwisha, lakini huko mbele tutakuja pamoja By James Omoro | 10 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 20 hours ago By Joackim Bwana | 1 day ago By Benard Lusigi | 1 day ago