Court of Appeal judge, Justice Fatuma Sichale, says the proposed constitutional amendment process (BBI Bill) was largely initiated by the Executive and not the people who are the constitutional decision-makers.  While giving her judgement on the BBI Appeal case alongside six other judges, Justice Sichale said the proposals by the BBI secretariat co-chairs should have been done via a parliamentary process, which she adds is the route of popular initiative.  “The proposals by Junet Mohamed and Dennis Waweru (BBI Secretariat co-chairs) would have been best channelled through a parliamentary process, this was not a Wanjiku process,” she said.  Justice Sichale went on, “The process leading up to the formulation of the Constitution of Kenya Amendment Bill, in my view, was largely driven by the Executive." Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. The former Assistant Director in the Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission (KACC) upheld the High Court's ruling that President Uhuru Kenyatta cannot promote a popular initiative but faulted the five-judge bench for making findings without ascertaining whether he had been served.  Back to drawing board for top politicians as elections beckon  Judges’ verdict on IEBC quorum puts 17 by-elections in jeopardy  Voters must study all those seeking power next year  Deputy President William Ruto’s reaction to BBI fall   “It was wrong for the High Court to proceed with the hearing and thereafter make adverse findings against His Excellency President Uhuru Kenyatta without ascertaining whether he had been served either with the petition and or the subsequent hearing notices,” she added.  In her judgement, Justice Sichale was quick to note that verification of signatures does not require the IEBC to quorate, adding a constitution must be flexible to allow for a country’s growth and development.  “In my view, a constitution must be flexible to allow for a country’s growth & review of constitution is essential to cater for new & unforeseen future problems and therefore, inadvisable to have a constitution cast in stone,” she ruled.  “What is good for one generation may not necessarily be good for the next; present and future generations should not be ruled by the dead hand of their ancestors,” she added.?   ODM’s attempt to oust Chebukati from IEBC elicits mixed reactions | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  IEBC launches 2020-2024 Strategic Plan ahead of the 2022 general elections  Uteuzi wa kidato cha kwanza, IEBC imezindua ruwaza na mikakati ya miaka mitano ijayo | MBIU YA KTN By Jacinta Mutura and Iman Masud | 2 hours ago By Patrick Muinde | 2 hours ago By Paul Ogemba and Kamau Muthoni | 2 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 6 hours ago