Deputy President William Ruto will today hold a ‘Hustler Nation’ legislators parliamentary group meeting at his official residence in Karen, Nairobi.  Members of Parliament allied to the DP and the United Democratic Alliance party (UDA) are expected to attend the meeting to deliberate on a myriad issues, including how to take the ‘bottom-up’ conversation forward.  This parliamentary group meeting was announced by ‘Hustler Nation’ spokesperson Dennis Itumbi shortly after Ruto concluded an interview at Inooro FM yesterday.    Sources intimated to The Standard that more than 140 people will be in attendance. Legislators will use the platform to evaluate their reach in the grassroots mobilisation and strategise how to navigate the political environment.  Ruto: Airport drama meant to frustrate me  Come clean on Museveni links, ODM leaders tell deputy president  DP lacked 'necessary' papers, says Kibicho  South Sudan's VP Machar deposed by party: rival leaders “DP William Ruto will host Hustler Nation legislators PG at his Karen office tomorrow, Thursday 5th August, 2022… Taking the bottom up conversation to the next level (sic),” posted Itumbi on his Twitter handle.  Meanwhile, Kiambaa MP Njuguna Wanjiku (UDA) was yesterday sworn in.  Mr Njuguna, who becomes the first MP to be elected on the UDA ticket, was accompanied by MPs Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu) and Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu).  Kiambaa MP John Njuguna Wanjiku. [Samson Wire, Standard]  It was, however, the pomp and colour that took Kenyans by surprise as MPs allied to the DP showed up in Parliament donning attires with UDA party colours.  Female MPs put on yellow dresses while their male counterparts wore yellow ties or face masks.     Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana  DP William Ruto has been stopped from travelling to Uganda where he was headed for a private visit  Wabunge 3 Tana River washinikiza wananchi kumuunga mkono Naibu Rais William Ruto | MBIU YA KTN (2) By Allan Mungai | 4 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 4 hours ago By Brian Otieno and Jacob Ng’etich | 4 hours ago By Patrick Beja  | 4 hours ago