ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi with Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria (right) at AIPCK Church in Githunguri, Kiambu County. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi has condemned ODM’s call to disband the electoral body led by Wafula Chebukati, a few months to next year’s polls.   Mudavadi told leaders to stop interfering with the work of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) and allow commissioners to focus on delivering a free, fair and credible election.  Addressing faithful at AIPCK Church in Githunguri, Kiambu County, yesterday, the ANC leader said the independence of the commission should be respected.  SK Macharia asks politicians to sell Raila aggressively in Mt Kenya  Ruto: I would rather talk about security of ordinary Kenyans  ANC lays strategy for dominating polls in Western  Court taps into customs, denies siblings right to bury their own mother   Further, he urged leaders to focus on selling their agenda to Kenyans instead of interfering with the commission's work.   “Free and fair elections can only be achieved by ensuring the independence of IEBC. People should be guaranteed a free and fair election without intimidation,” said Mudavadi.  Speaking at the same event, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria warned against giving unnecessary conditions to the electoral commission, saying this would destabilise the polls body.  “Leaders should give it (IEBC) space to prepare for the elections. The Orange party should stop their perennial complaints against the electoral body,” said Kuria.  At the same time, Mudavadi announced his 10-point programme to woo President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Mt Kenya backyard.  He noted that agriculture, entrepreneurship, public-private partnership initiatives, youth employment, industrialisation, manufacturing and innovations would top his agenda of the region if he is elected president.  The Amani National Congress leader noted that through agriculture, trade and entrepreneurship he would promote a 24-hour economy in all trading centres through the installation of street lights and decent trading sheds.  "My government will come up with recovery models that will insulate people from further losses and ensure their resilience and recovery," said Mudavadi.   ODM’s attempt to oust Chebukati from IEBC elicits mixed reactions | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao  Muungano wa NASA umevunjika rasmi baada ya ANC, Wiper na Ford Kenya kutangaza kujiondoa kwao By Mireri Junior | 2 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 4 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 6 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago