At least five people died after drinking illicit liquor.  Nakuru County Commissioner Erastus Mbui said the five were from Hodihodi village in Bahati.  “Three people died while receiving treatment and two were pronounced dead on arrival at the hospital,” he said.  According to the county boss, the tragedy struck just a day after a security meeting geared at eliminating the brews was held. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey.   Gideon: Let's maintain unity ahead of elections  Three key players leave Nakuru Queens for league champions Thika Queens  Why Nakuru is fast becoming a hotbed of artistic renaissance  Rugby: Defending champions KCB open eight-point gap in Kenya Cup Maili Kumi Sub County Hospital Medical superintendent Kennedy Owino said the five cases had been reported at the facility. A 36-year-old woman who was seven months pregnant was stabilized.  “We have conducted the necessary tests and established that they had all consumed poisoned liquor,” said Dr Owino.  County Executive Committee Member for Health Kariuki Gichuki said 12 other patients were undergoing treatment. “The 12 are being managed for alcohol intoxication and organophosphate poisoning at different hospitals,” said Dr Gichuki.  According to residents, business rivalry may have led to the tragedy that also claimed the life of a brewer.  Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri who condoled with the grieving families accused security agencies of laxity in their work.  “It is unfortunate that these incidents are happening just a stone throw away from the administrators’ offices and the police station,” said Ngunjiri.  Governor Lee Kinyanjui mourned the five noting that they are set to launch a crackdown on illicit brews.    Serikali ya kaunti ya Nakuru yatoa pendekezo la kuzuia uvuvi katika ziwa Naivasha  KENHA urges Kenyans plying the Nairobi-Nakuru highway to use alternative routes  Tussle over the ownership of land in Ngongogeri, Nakuru threatening peace amongst disputing parties By Fred Kibor | 8 hours ago By Mercy Kahenda | 8 hours ago By Martin Ndiema | 8 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 20 hours ago