ODM leader Raila Odinga yesterday met with Ambassadors and Heads of Mission from the United Kingdom, European Union, the US and UN to discuss programmes for Kenya.  The envoys reportedly sought Raila’s views on national, regional and global perspective. The ODM leader said they discussed how to spur the economy to cushion livelihoods, support for democracy and the fight against Covid-19.  “I’m encouraged by the sentiments of Ambassadors and Heads of Mission from the EU, US, and UN regarding programmes for our nation,” said Raila. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. Envoys in attendance were US Embassy Chargé d’Affaires Eric Kneedler, UK High Commissioner Jane Marriot among others. Raila was flanked ODM Director of Elections and Suna East MP Junet Mohammed and Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi.  Covid-19: Kenya loses 32 patients, 1,546 test positive  Only 1,000 vaccinated delegates for devolution conference  Editorial: Full Capacity?  Why Uhuru Kenyatta would be at ease with president Raila Odinga   A source close to Raila said that the envoys were touching base with Kenya’s leading politicians ahead of the 2022 election. The source said the discussion was about the polls and the need for peace ahead of the contest.  “It was a high level meeting. The deliberations were about our elections next year and the transition to the next administration. They were basically trying to keep tabs on the thoughts of the top contenders in the elections, the matters affecting the nation, the region and internationally,” said the source.  The envoys have held meetings in the recent past with ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi. The UK High Commissioner has met National Assembly and Senate Speakers Justin Muturi and Ken Lusaka respectively and Chief Justice Martha Koome among others.    Ministry of Health receives 180,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine as a donation from Gov't of Greece  Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens  Raila Odinga has given the clearest indication yet that he is ready to work with One Kenya Alliance By Chris Thairu | 9 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 9 hours ago By Robert Amalemba | 9 hours ago By Peterson Githaiga | 16 hours ago