The government is targeting the youth and boda boda operators in its strategy against election violence in potential hotspots ahead of the General Election.  Interior CS Fred Matiang’i (pictured) has said the crews will be engaged in peace missions and civic education to be rolled out in partnership with religious organisations and other teams.  He said the campaigns will target potential hotspots that have been mapped out and other regions that are likely to be flagged out to deliver a violence-free poll.  “We are committed to seeing to it that not a single bullet is shot, no citizen is hurt, and every Kenyan has the opportunity to take part in shaping governance and democracy in our country,” the CS said.  It's time for new breed of leaders, says Muturi  Boda boda operators torch school bus in Embu [Photos]  Cleric declares interest in 2022 presidential race  44-year-old teacher who wants to be country's next president  Addressing the 64th General Assembly of the National Council of Churches of Kenya (NCCK) in Limuru, Dr. Matiang’i said more registration clerks have been engaged to speed up the issuance of IDs to enable more youth to participate in the election.  Development partners have also been urged to involve the youth in peace education.  The CS went on, “We want to have an election that has zero displacements. We want the real will of the voters to be reflected in election results.”  The CS was with CASs Mercy Mwangangi (Health), David Osiany (Trade) and Zack Kinuthia (Sports).  He told the youth to seek elective offices and to help promote peaceful politics.  On the security situation in the country, Matiang’i said the recent arrest of terror suspects in Mombasa and the ongoing operation against cattle-rustling are testimony to the heightened alertness among security agencies.   Exploring the preparedness and the key timeliness of the IEBC to conduct the 2022 General Elections  NCCK yadai BBI si jambo la lazima, Usajili katika vyama, Mzozo wa SRC | MBIU WIKENDI (Sehemu ya 2)  IEBC launches 2020-2024 Strategic Plan ahead of the 2022 general elections By Moses Nyamori | 5 minutes ago By Amos Kareithi | 20 minutes ago By Jael Mboga | 28 minutes ago By Winfrey Owino | 1 hour ago What to do with Ruto? Uhuru's dilemma and why spat with DP is written in history