IPOA established that Sergeant John Otieno allegedly shot the Form Two student on August 12, 2016. [Courtesy]  A police officer will be charged with the murder of a secondary school student at the High Court in Mombasa.  The Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA) chairperson Anne Makori said the deceased, a 16-year-old boy, died of bullet wounds sustained during an encounter with the police at Uwanja wa Mbuzi grounds in Nyali Constituency. “The death falls within the mandate of IPOA to hold police accountable for their actions,” Makori said.  Investigations by the authority established that Sergeant John Otieno allegedly shot the Form Two student on August 12, 2016, and was set for prosecution.  IPOA says the decision was arrived at by the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) after independently reviewing their evidence.  Man shot during Kahawa West protests identified  Suspects in Kianjokoma brothers’ murders want bodies exhumed  IPOA launches probe into death of Kahawa West man  Pedestrians factored in during Expressway construction plans, engineers say A postmortem on Tony Katana’s body facilitated by Haki Africa revealed that he died as a result of an injury to the spinal cord and two gunshot wounds.  “It appears that when Katana was shot the first time, the injuries immobilised him. This would have been perfect for the said officers to handcuff him and have him arrested,” Hussein Khalid, then Haki Africa Executive Director said.  Kisauni Deputy OCPD at the time, Walter Abondo, alleged that the teenager was a criminal.  “He was part of a gang of armed youths. He was armed with a panga and a knife and when challenged to surrender, he attempted to attack police, hence he was shot,” he said.  Katana was buried at his parent’s home in Ngangani village in Kitui County.   Wawaniaji wa nafasi ya Ugavana kaunti ya Mombasa kupitia chama cha ODM wajiandaa  Wakaazi wa Mombasa wahimizwa kufuata masharti ya kudhibiti korona | MBIU YA KTN ( Sehemu ya 2)  Wakenya kutoka kaunti ya Mombasa watoa hisia zao kuhusu bajeti ya 2021/2022 By Kamore Maina | 1 hour ago By Robert Amalemba | 2 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 3 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 4 hours ago What to do with Ruto? Uhuru's dilemma and why spat with DP is written in history