Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) CEO Twalib Mbarak (left) shares a word with the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji during a meeting on Strengthening Stakeholder Collaboration within the Justice Sector towards Combating Corruption and Economic Crimes at Sarova Whitesands in Mombasa County on Monday, July 26, 2021. [Kelvin Karani, Standard]  Investigative agencies want governors, MPs and MCAs facing criminal charges barred from office pending determination of their cases.  The agencies are also pushing for legislation that will turn audit reports into prosecution tools in a move targeting accounting officers among them Principals Secretaries and parastatal CEOs.  Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission boss Twalib Mbarak and Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji yesterday said it was frustrating to see politicians facing criminal charges continue serving.  They said provisions allowing leaders facing charges in court to exhaust all appeal mechanisms have been abused.  EACC summons Chuka University VC over academic papers  Magistrate denies misconduct in MP Aisha Jumwa graft case  Graft cases to go up in election year, says DPP  Lawyers decline to hand over Aisha Jumwa graft case files to new team   Mbarak said the agency had found itself in a precarious position ahead of 2022 as it cannot bar leaders facing charges, from contesting. The EACC boss said politicians facing charges of forged academic papers will still end up on the ballot since they are yet to be convicted.  Justice Mumbi Ngugi had in 2019 ruled that governors facing graft charges be barred from accessing office. However, the charged county bosses have remained in office.  “We have charged nine governors and they are still in office,” said Haji. They spoke at a forum convened by Parliament's Public Accounts Committee.   President Uhuru Kenyatta condemns graft in the National Youth Service  I stand by my affidavit,NYS scam suspect Josephine Kabura tells EACC over Waiguru dossier   President Uhuru commends resilience of Kenyans in his speech By Joackim Bwana | 5 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago