Coast Development Authority Managing Director, Mohamed Keinan Hassan. [Omondi Onyango, Standard]  The Coast Development Authority (CDA) has started the construction of the Sh142 million Earth Fill Dam water pan in Fafi Constituency, Garissa County to cushion residents from drought.  CDA managing director, Dr Mohamed Keinan said that when completed, the dam will serve approximately 69,000 households for domestic, livestock, and small-scale irrigation. The water pan has a capacity of harvesting 350,000 cubic metres of rainwater.  Keinan termed the project a game-changer in addressing the perennial water shortage that has beleaguered the region.  “This dam will mitigate the effect of drought facing this region, as CDA, we had to make an emergency decision because this is the only source of water to serve the entire community including schools,” said Keinan.  County aims to draw in big investors with land  New varieties of tree tomatoes and arrowroots ensure bumper harvest for innovative farmer  State firm suspends two managers over misconduct  Workers celebrate as board shows MD the door Currently, residents are forced to endure a 110 kilometres walk to access water for both livestock and domestic use.   “The purpose of smallholder irrigation is to achieve the food security of the area inhabitants, and from the engineers report the dam is 30 per cent complete and will be done before the end of this year.  “The dam will have sufficient water to cater for the entire population,” he added.  Sasa Abdulahi, a resident, welcomed the project’s inception and stated that it will help end perennial water shortages and end the long journeys they take on search of water.  She said the little water they get from the few sources is also not pure and safe for drinking.  “We are happy because this project will save us from suffering from water-borne related diseases, the water we use is not safe for drinking because we share it with domestic animals,” Sasa said.  Area ward representative Yusuf Omar Abdi said since independence, the residents have been depending on rain water in water pans. “Most of the residents have been migrants because of water scarcity, there are pastoralists who migrate for about 500 kilometres from here with their cattle because of drought,” said Abdi.  Bura sub-county commissioner, Titus Mbogo, reiterated the need to fast-track the water project before the rainy season kicks off later this year.    Maternity unit opened in Garissa County  KTN Weekend Prime Full Bulletin 2nd April 2016 - Garissa University Anniversary  Garissa College marks first anniversary since it was attacked by AL shabaab militia last year By Patrick Beja | 17 hours ago By Kelvin Karani | 17 hours ago By Joackim Bwana | 1 day ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 1 day ago