Only 1,000 delegates who are fully vaccinated will participate in the seventh devolution conference in Makueni County later this month.  Over 6,000 delegates were expected at the event, dubbed “Multi-level governance for climate action” but due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Council of Governors (CoG) and the Ministry of Devolution have scaled down the numbers to ensure compliance with health protocols.  Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, CoG vice chair and Kisii Governor James Ongwae said they engaged the Ministry of Health and resolved to proceed with the event scheduled for August 23 to 26.  President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to address the forum on August 24, plant the two millionth tree and unveil a historic monument in Makueni, marking the final conference as a symbol of unity, strength and prosperity. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. Already, 1,999,999 trees have been planted in Embu, Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni and Kajiado counties, an initiative of the steering committee that led CoG to begin a devolution forest to conserve the environment in line with the conference’s theme.  Only 1,000 vaccinated delegates for devolution conference  Devolution Conference to be held once every 2 years starting 2022  Man kills estranged wife before hanging self  Makueni, Kitui heat not too hot for Covid  “We anticipate to physically host 1,000 delegates at Makueni High School. We will adopt a hybrid approach. Each head of delegation, whether ministries, the Senate, county governments will ensure all their members are fully vaccinated and have test certificates,” said Wamalwa.  “The national steering committee will visit the venue on 21st before the event starts on 23rd alongside the Senate to ensure all protocols are in place,” the CS added.  He said Kenya has faced a lot of challenges ranging from Covid-19, climate change, drought and the locust invasion.  “Our resilience has been tested. The main challenge in preparing for the important conference is the surge in Covid-19 cases. Climate change is also a crisis,” said Wamalwa.  “We must confront matters of climate finance, deal with financial issues and the intervention measures. It is going to be a big platform,” he added.  The CS said the conference will go on as planned citing the Olympics which took place in Japan amid Covid-19 fears.  “A lot has gone in for the preparation of the conference. Postponing the same could mean it’s deferred indefinitely,” he said.  Governor Ongwae said the CoG secretariat is working closely with the Ministry of Health and will verify from its data base, the list of attendees, to ensure they are vaccinated.  “We have held a number of engagements after the event was postponed in April to ensure it goes on in strict adherence to health protocols and also roll out massive vaccination programme,” he said.  He clarified that the forum will not be a walk in event.  The event will be officially closed on Thursday by Deputy President William Ruto. ODM leader Raila Odinga will be the keynote speaker on Wednesday.  Host Governor Kivutha Kibwana said Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka will address the conference on climate change.  “This is a special meeting. The president’s attendance as well as a platform for Raila and DP to reflect on devolution and climate change issues, is very pertinent,” said Prof Kibwana.  He added: “We will not have politics, people will come quietly not to excite crowds and put us in danger. We did postpone the meeting and had incurred expenses, we must have it.”  He said ten ambulances will be stationed at the event, as well as 20 isolation beds, 28 ICU and 20 HDU.  Some delegates will be drawn from NGOs, and deliberations will form part of the resolutions.  “It’s an action oriented event to form the regulatory framework. Makueni was the first to pass the law and the budget and form groups among citizens who have activities around climate change,” said Kibwana.  Wamalwa also said the meeting will call out the counties yet to pass the climate change regulation, in line with the national government climate change law.  “In Africa, Kenya was among the first to pass the climate change Act and the action plan. We will showcase what we have done. Makueni has done a lot. It is among the counties that have passed the climate change Bill. Some 41 counties are yet to pass the Bill,” the Cabinet secretary said.   Death in a Cell: 29-year-old student allegedly committed suicide while in police custody in Makueni  Afisa Kortini: Aliyekuwa OCS Makueni ashtakiwa madai ya kuchukua hongo na matumizi mabaya ya ofisi  Wenyeji wa Makueni na Kitui wapinga ujenzi wa bwawa linalotarajiwa kuzindliwa na rais Uhuru By Jacqueline Mahugu | 40 minutes ago By Allan Mungai | 40 minutes ago By Amos Kareithi | 9 hours ago By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 9 hours ago