Nominees to the Independent Elections and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) say they will review policy decisions made by the three current commissioners if approved by Parliament.  The four nominees – Juliana Cherer, Francis Wanderi, Irene Masit and Justus Nyang’aya – yesterday told a House committee that this would prevent legal challenges.  This follows Friday’s Court of Appeal judgement that declared that the electoral agency lacked the quorum to conduct its affairs.  The four appeared before the National Assembly’s Justice and Legal Affairs Committee (JLAC), vetting their suitability to replace four ex-commissioners – Roselyne Akombe, Consolata Nkatha, Margaret Mwachanya and Paul Kurgat.    Why verdict on IEBC might come back to haunt the court  Fate of 27 'endangered' constituencies in limbo as IEBC's time runs out  ODM should not cry foul now over Chebukati and the IEBC  Judges’ verdict on IEBC quorum puts 17 by-elections in jeopardy “In light of the Court of Appeal decision that the IEBC was not quorate…how will you handle the consequences of these,” posed Mathare MP Anthony Oluoch.  “We are going to review the things that have been agreed by the commissioners who have been there. The decisions going to affect this current election have to be done by the full quorum so that we don’t leave a gap,” said Cherer, the first nominee to be vetted.  “I will ask members who were there and the new ones to review anything, from buying a pen… we must review everything from the beginning,” Wanderi told the Muturi Kigano-led committee.  Masit said she would want the commission to seek a “Supreme Court advisory” on the matter. For more than three years, IEBC has operated with three commissioners – chairman Wafula Chebukati, Boya Molu and Abdi Guliye – who have conducted by-elections and made policy decisions, some of which are meant to guide next year’s polls.  Despite being ambiguous on what a review entails, the stance by the four nominees promises friction between commissioners should they opt to overturn decisions the Chebukati-led team have made.   ODM’s attempt to oust Chebukati from IEBC elicits mixed reactions | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  IEBC launches 2020-2024 Strategic Plan ahead of the 2022 general elections  Uteuzi wa kidato cha kwanza, IEBC imezindua ruwaza na mikakati ya miaka mitano ijayo | MBIU YA KTN By Joackim Bwana | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago