ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru yesterday tore into Deputy President William Ruto and accused him of promising youths analogue solutions to economic challenges.   In a no holds barred speech, Mr Mucheru accused Ruto of championing far-fetched economic fantasies anchored on falsehoods and said youths are not hustlers.  “I am a student of economics and I do not see how the successful economic uplifting of our people can be carried on with outdated solutions. We can and must do better than this,” Mucheru.  At the same time, the CS termed the Court of Appeal judgement against the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI), a usurpation the role of Wanjiku in deciding her fate.    DP William Ruto hits out at rivals, says they lack agenda  Uhuru dares Ruto to resign   BBI: Judiciary has usurped Wanjiku’s role in deciding her fate  Don’t hustle forever, make youthful gains “They have opted to settle political scores at the expense of the common man,” said Mucheru in reference to the seven-judge bench that delivered the judgement on Friday.  Speaking during the launch of the National Council of Churches of Kenya (NCCK) Youth Fragility report and Youth Policy survey at Limuru at its 64th General Assembly, the CS asked the church to give directions to the youth. The theme of the event was wholesome youth for a wholesome society.  Mucheru took a swipe at the church for “donating” the pulpit to the people misleading the nation to propagate their gospel.  “Where has been the church when some of these falsehoods are being perpetrated, sometimes at the pulpit by these mis-leaders, for us to have a wholesome society, society must endeavour to tell the truth when it hurts because the truth shall set us free,” Mucheru said  He said churches receive massive donations from politicians who use the pulpit to preach division and class war among citizens.  “These Bible-waving politicians have especially targeted the youth because they think wrongly that youth are gullible and easy to manipulate,” Mucheru said   The CS advised the youths not to fall for the lies of politicians.  ”You must expose these peddlers for who they are, they are snake oil salesmen who will go to any extent to gain political power, you must see beyond the smokescreen and unmask these people who are out to take advantage of the youths,” Mucheru said.  He said that During the sermon on the mountain (Matthew 7:21), Jesus Christ warned against false prophets saying not everyone who calls me ‘Lord, Lord’ will enter the Kingdom of heaven.  “Similarly in our society, remember that not everyone who proclaims their religion by shouting from the mountain top ‘Bwana asifiwe’ (paise God) and ‘Hallelujah’s’ at every opportunity means well. For some, their actions betray them,” Mucheru said  He likened such leaders to the proverbial wolf in sheep skin taking advantage of the religious inclination of the people. Mucheru told the youths that his ministry has formulated policies that advance their aspirations.   “My Ministry has sensitised thousands of youth on how to earn from digital and digitally-enabled jobs through the Ajira Digital Program,” he said.  NCCK General Secretary Rev Cannon Chris Kinyanjui said that they commissioned a national youth fragility report in December 2020 where more than 900 youths across the country participated.  Kinyanjui noted that the youths shared their views, ideas and fears as well as assessing their level of engagement in key decision making organs of the church and country.  The fragility report highlighted challenges youths face including lack of representation and involvement in the decisions made by the community, religious and political institutions.  The report showed that the youths lack a sense of belonging in the society, church and nation and that religious beliefs do not influence social and cultural issues.  The survey noted that there was a gap between priorities of the community, church and state and the issues that youths are currently struggling with which include job and financial security, value-driven leadership and political choices.  Kinyanjui observed that youth unemployment in Kenya was a matter of concern. He noted that 2.3 million youths are jobless representing 13 per cent of the age group between 15 and 35 years.  “There are approximately half a million youths who graduate from various tertiary institutions yearly ready to enter the job market, however, due to nepotism, slow economic growth, corruption and demand for experience by potential employers 375,000 or 75 per cent remain unemployed making them a potential threat to the society,” Kinyanjui said.  More than 150 youths drawn from all the counties attended the event at the Jumuiya Centre in Limuru.   Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana  DP William Ruto has been stopped from travelling to Uganda where he was headed for a private visit  Wabunge 3 Tana River washinikiza wananchi kumuunga mkono Naibu Rais William Ruto | MBIU YA KTN (2) By Antony Gitonga | 4 hours ago By Nehemiah Okwembah | 4 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 4 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 9 hours ago