Slain Kianjokoma brothers laid to rest in one grave on August 13, 2021. [Muriithi Mugo, Standard]  All officers involved in the killing of the Embu brothers have been suspended to pave way for prosecution.  Inspector-General of Police Hillary Mutyambai said the Independent Policing Oversight Authority has concluded investigations on the matter and forwarded the file to the DPP.  "I assure you that justice for the Kianjokoma brothers will be served, but this can only be done if we allow the proper due process to take place with concrete evidence that can stand a trial in court," Mutyambai said on Twitter during his Engage the IG session. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey.   IPOA, DPP crack whip on suspects of Kianjokoma brothers’ death   Mr Mutyambai, get to bottom of police brutality  Liquor maker staff protest being denied entry into premises  Leaders call out police as Embu brothers buried Benson Njiru, 22, and Emmanuel Mutura, 19, were arrested for allegedly flouting the 10pm-4am curfew on August 1, outside their family shop in Kianjokoma shopping centre.  On August 3 the siblings’ bodies were found at the Embu Level 5 Hospital morgue.  The deceased’s uncle, Felix Nthiga, claimed Njiru and Mutura were arrested by police officers attached to Manyatta station.  Family said the boys’ bodies were found at Kibungu shopping centre, 10km from where they had been arrested on Sunday night.  Emmanuel Mutura and Benson Njiru went missing on August 1, and were found dead on August 3. [Muriithi Mugo, Standard]  The siblings’ father, John Ndwiga, said he “was certain” police were responsible for his children’s deaths.  “I viewed their bodies and I could tell they were physically assaulted. Their faces were swollen and had bruises,” he told The Standard.  Embattled Embu North Sub-County Police Commander, Emily Ngaruiya, however, denied allegations that law enforcement officers killed the duo.  “A postmortem will reveal the truth,” she said, adding that the boys died after jumping off a moving police van.  Her remarks sparked protests in Embu, where police used live bullets on Thursday to disperse crowds, blocking roads for a second day. One person died during the melee.  Abdullahi Adan Alio has since replaced Ngaruiya as Embu North Sub-County Police Commander.  Ngaruiya and Manyatta OCS Abdullahi Yaya were removed on Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG) Edward Mbugua’s orders on August 6.  The two are accused of negligence after the brothers were allegedly killed by police.  A postmortem indicated that Njiru and Mutura died of multiple head and rib injuries.  Pathologist Kamau Wangari said Mutura's head was deformed and bore bruises in the face while Njiru’s ribs had been broken. Dr. Wangari also said that Njiru's brain had an injury.   DPP Noordin Haji wants the court to lockout MPs representing clients in corruption cases  Lawyer files an affidavit seeking removal DPP Tobiko from office  Tobiko under siege: A lawyer has signed an affidavit citing DPP's misconduct By Jael Mboga | 9 hours ago By Peterson Githaiga and Jacinta Mutura | 1 day ago By Peterson Githaiga | 3 days ago By Muriithi Mugo | 3 days ago