Pratik Mathur speaking at United Nations General Assembly. [Courtesy]  India's development partnership with Afghanistan includes more than 550 Community Development Projects covering all its 34 provinces and is aimed at strengthening the country, said Counsellor in India's Permanent Mission to the UN, Pratik Mathur.  During a debate on peace-building and sustaining peace on Thursday at United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), Mathur said: "Our development partnership with Afghanistan includes more than 550 Community Development Projects. It is aimed at strengthening Afghanistan."  He also said that India has always played a constructive role in peace-building processes, especially in its neighbouring countries. Help us serve you better by completing our quick survey. "As a democracy, India is conscious of the need to prioritise institution building, in particular, governance structures to strengthen institutional capacity and the rule of law, taking into account the views of the host government," Mathur said.  Kiambu couple, Mukundi and Njeri, to be buried in separate locations  Philomena Njeri pregnancy status revealed as autopsy indicates how she and husband died  How a revolutionary from Bengal got Japan hooked to Indian curry  India's new industrial policy opens Jammu and Kashmir to world "India, through its extensive development partnerships with developing countries, particularly in Africa and Asia, has always played a constructive and significant role in peace-building. In our neighbourhood, for instance in Afghanistan, India is also contributing to peace-building efforts.  His remarks came after the External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said that there can't be a military solution or a takeover by use of force in Afghanistan.  "There can't be a military solution, there can't be a takeover by use of force in Afghanistan. We'll work with the international community to ensure that political negotiations for a settlement are pursued seriously and we would never accept an outcome which is decided by force," Jaishankar said.  "I articulated our position at a press conference that was jointly held with the visiting US Secretary of State. We were very clear that there must be a negotiated, political settlement in Afghanistan," he told the Parliament in New Delhi on Thursday.    Baba awadunga kisu wanawe wawili katika eneo la Nyandarua, watoto hao wako mahututi hospitalini  Hatma ya miungano mashakani baada ya BBI kugonga mwamba, wengi walitegemea nyadhfa ndani ya BBI  Why Uhuru is under attack from Maraga and Mutunga | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI By Standard Reporter | 1 hour ago By Standard Reporter | 6 hours ago By  Standard Reporter | 1 day ago By Standard Reporter | 1 day ago