Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka is in Dubai, United Arabs Emirates (UAE) to attend the 2021 Voice Achievers Awards ceremony where he will be among the Awardees of The Icon of Democracy Awards 2021.  Kalonzo was nominated for the award for his relentless efforts in working for peace in South Sudan, the DRC and Somalia and his role in formation of the grand coalition government in Kenya in 2008.  During the presentation of the nomination letter of the launch of the SKM Command Centre in Karen on 12th August this year, the representatives of the Voice News Magazine in Kenya Jimmi Nicks said the publication has tracked the Wiper leader's peace efforts for a long time hence the decision to award him.  “Presently sir, you serve as Special Kenyan government Envoy to the Republic of South Sudan, helping to uphold the very fragile democracy in that country, a huge task you have taken on with a joyful heart, in service to humanity. The Voice News Africa magazine has tracked your record and taken notice of your iconic democratic contribution to the continent of Africa," read the letter for the Award  Raila can help the other politicians beat Ruto by not going for presidency  Gideon: I won't be distracted by chest-thumping loud minority  Nitakufinya: Matendechele sues corporates for using his image  Kalonzo Musyoka blames inequality, poverty on corruption “Therefore, Voice Achievers Award for 2021 has resolved to recognize and confer on you, the award of the Icon of Democracy in Africa for 2021 at the Voice Achievers Award ceremony due September 19th 2021 in Dubai," it said  The Voice magazine has also dedicated their September Cover and a 9-page story of Kalonzo.  Kalonzo Musyoka (right) receives a nomination letter from Voice News Magazine representative Jimmi Nicks, August 12, 2021. [Dennis Kavisu, Standard]  The Wiper leader who also helped in the formation of the coalition government in DRC after the last election will be feted for his outstanding effort to unite and resolve conflicts in several African countries.  In a recent interview with a local TV station, Kalonzo enumerated several milestones achieved in South Sudan since his appointment two years ago.  He oversaw the establishment of a new parliament and now working on resolving the army unification.  “The responsibility of a peaceful South Sudan lies squarely with the South Sudanese and their leaders, our role is to help them cross that bridge, South Sudan is very close to my heart and I am happy President Uhuru Kenyan asked me to continue with this mission," said Kalonzo.  The Voice Magazine, a publication in the Netherlands, rewards not only successful businesses, but those with a positive impact on communities and the country or region they operate from.  Others who will be feted include the First Lady of the Gambia Fatoumatta Bah- Barrow with African Women of the Year Award and another Kenyan media personality, Patience Nyange, will be awarded the African Community Figure Award.    The event which will be hosted at the Intercontinental Festival City Hotel in Dubai has attracted world business leaders from Holland, USA, Britain, South Africa, The Gambia, Mali, Guinea among others for networking and business opportunities.    Kalonzo asema lengo lake kubwa katika uchaguzi mkuu ujao ni kumshinda William Ruto | MBIU WIKENDI 2  Governor Charity Ngilu urges Kalonzo and Raila to mend fences and work together ahead of 2022 polls  Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka calls out political leaders who renege on political agreements By Antony Gitonga | 6 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 8 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 10 hours ago By  Nzau Musau | 22 hours ago