Interior Ministry has revealed the security detail of Deputy President William Ruto to dismantle claims of downgrading his team in pursuit of political vendetta.  Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’í yesterday gave details of security personnel manning the DP’s official Karen residence, in Nairobi, two homes in Sugoi and Eldoret as well as private investments, including a poultry farm.  In total, the DP is guarded by a total of 257 security personnel, way above previous equivalent officer holders.   Dr Matiang’i disclosed that 74 Presidential Escort officers were providing security to the second-in-command round the clock as part of his inner security layer. The inner layer has an additional six officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) and five officers from the General Service Unit (GSU) deployed as drivers and bodyguards.  Ruto allies now demand list of properties owned by VVIPs  DP’s office denies links to property listed by CS Matiang’i   Lugha ya Hustler  Inside DP William Ruto’s security detail   The inner layer is under the command of a Commissioner of Police, Senior Superintendent of Police and two Chief Inspectors. Another 121 officers drawn from the Administration Police and Prisons Service have also been deployed to provide security at his residences.  Further, 51 officers have been deployed to guard DP’s investments, with six officers stationed at his Kitengela Gas property, four at Weston Hotel, six at 395-acre Murumbi farm and six at ADC Laikipia Mutara Ranch.  Ruto’s Elgon View residence in Eldoret has four officers, another four guard his Koitalel poultry farm and six at Dolphine Hotel in Mombasa. This even as the National Security and Administration Committee chaired by Peter Mwathi (Limuru) was informed that the police officer ration to citizen stands at 1:600.  “Currently, 121 officers from the Administration Police and Prisons Services are providing security at the DP’s various residences. In addition to the 74 Presidential Escort personnel, six officers from DCI and five drivers from GSU are deployed,” said Matiangi.  The CS said that contrary to the allegations made by the DP’s office and political allies, Ruto was the most guarded in the history of the country compared to previous equivalent officer holders. The late former President Moi was guarded by 34 security personnel when he served as vice president while Mwai Kibaki had 26 officers when he served in a similar capacity.  The late former Vice President George Saitoti was guarded by 30 personnel while Musalia Mudavadi, Kijana Wamalwa and Moody Awori each had 22 police officers when they served as VP. ODM leader Raila Odinga had 57 police officers when he served as Prime Minister.  Matiang’i said the decision of the National Police Service to restructure and reassign personnel is part of ongoing police reforms that began in 2010. He said the objective was to make “the service efficient, agile and mission-responsive”.  “The Ministry categorically refutes the allegations and regards them as irresponsible and misleading. We wish to further state that the action taken by the Inspector General was within the constitutional and legal mandate of the office,” he said.  He explained that the security of the DP was taken over by the Security of Government Buildings (SGB) from General Service Unit (GSU).  “SGB Unit is a specially mandated and dedicated Unit with responsibility over all government buildings, vital installations and strategic points amongst other functions,” said the CS.  He said that only State House and State Lodges are manned by GSU officers. The details emerged just a day after Ruto said MPs should prioritise more important issues like insecurity in areas prone to cattle rustling and banditry instead of wasting time discussing the saga touching his security.  Non issue to DP  “The Deputy President is not more important than the ordinary citizen. We are all equal before the law. The security of the people who are being harassed and terrorized by bandits is as important as that of any citizen, including the Deputy President. We should not waste time discussing one thing when we have a myriad of challenges,” said Ruto on Tuesday.  “Parliamentary time should not be wasted on non-issues. The AP is a professional security service and those who think it is a down grade are wrong. Parliament should instead focus on deployment to serious security situations in areas where bandits are causing mayhem and destruction,” he added.  The position, however, contradicted the earlier protest by his office, demanding for an explanation why the elite officers had been withdrawn. The DP’s Chief of Staff Ken Osinde wrote a protest letter to Mutyambai questioning what informed the decision, and cautioned that this move might expose Ruto to harm.  Another official statement by his spokesperson David Mugonya had claimed that the replacement was the latest installment in a sustained and systematic effort to undermine the DP’s personal security. Yesterday, Matiangi said that certain individuals were suffering from sympathy addiction and were ready to turn to make political capital on everything.  “The problem with our country is that some people suffer from sympathy addiction. They are always looking for opportunities to lament about this and that to attract sympathies,” said the CS.  He further accused officials at Ruto’s office of engaging in activism and progapanda by sharing the letter to the IG on social media before delivering it to the intended office.   Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana  DP William Ruto has been stopped from travelling to Uganda where he was headed for a private visit  Wabunge 3 Tana River washinikiza wananchi kumuunga mkono Naibu Rais William Ruto | MBIU YA KTN (2) By James Wanzala | 33 minutes ago By Winfrey Owino | 2 hours ago By PSCU | 2 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 4 hours ago