ODM leader Raila Odinga surprised Gideon Gitonga Gichuki (right) in Githuguri, Kiambu. [Fidelis Kabunyi, Standard]  ODM leader Raila Odinga yesterday graced his online supporter’s birthday party in Githunguri, Kiambu County.  Gideon Gichuki, a youth leader, was surprised when the former prime minister honoured his invitation, which he had sent in jest.  The invitation was made when Raila was in Zambia attending the swearing-in ceremony of President Hakainde Hichilema.    Raila pledges affordable housing, healthcare and education for all  Matiang’i report delivered a big blow to the ‘hustler’ narrative  Edwin Sifuna warns against backing politicians ‘because they are from your community’  Speaker Muturi, Karua and Kituyi join Kibwana to craft third force  “I attempted to get the ODM leader’s number and a friend showed me how to get it online. I started chatting with the former PM and to my surprise, he responded courteously and we have been chatting since then,” said Gichuki.  But as he looked forward to celebrating his 22nd birthday yesterday, he invited Raila for the party.  The project management student at Kenya Institute of Management (KIM) said at around 12.30pm as he was welcoming his friends and family members to his home for the party, Raila showed up, much to his surprise.  The ODM leader drove in a small convoy to Gichuki’s homestead accompanied by, among others, Kiambu Governor James Nyoro.  Raila Odinga gifting Gichuki's family. [Fidelis Kabunyi, Standard]  The guests who had gathered at the home danced in jubilation as they mingled freely with the surprise guest.  Raila gifted the family a dairy cow.  “I believe the family can continue to supplement their earnings once the cow starts giving milk, which you can sell and get some income,” he said.  He called on Mt Kenya region to support his bid for the presidency, saying he is the best suited candidate given his track record both politically and economically.  Raila Odinga sharing a cake with Gichuki's family. [Fidelis Kabunyi, Standard]  Philip Etale, the ODM communications director, said Raila had fulfilled the wish of the 22-year-old student who had retrieved his number online and invited him to the party.  “He went there knowing that Gideon is like every other child and deserves the best," said Etale. “Baba's gesture was informed by the fact that it doesn’t matter where you come from, whatever your ethnicity, you are first of all Kenyan.”    Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens  Raila Odinga has given the clearest indication yet that he is ready to work with One Kenya Alliance  Raila Odinga: Hio NASA kazi yake ilikwisha, lakini huko mbele tutakuja pamoja By Jacob Ngetich  | 55 minutes ago By Winfrey Owino | 1 hour ago By Amos Kareithi | 3 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 11 hours ago