Police in Naivasha are in dilemma after prisons authorities refused to admit a 16-year-old boy who tested positive for Covid-19.  The teenager was jailed for four months at the Kamiti Juvenile Prison after he was found guilty of livestock theft.  For the past one week, the boy has been at the Naivasha Police Station after he failed to get a bed at the Naivasha Sub-County Hospital's isolation ward.  Due to the increased number of coronavirus patients at the hospital, the management transferred some of them to Bondeni Hospital in Nakuru.  “He has been moving around, and he could have infected some officers. This could get worse in the coming days because we do not have an isolation centre in this station,” said an officer who sought anonymity.  Stop campaigns and uphold Covid rules, religious groups urge leaders  Are you above 50 years? Time to get vaccinated  Parents should take up their role as children’s first teachers  I won't back down from my State House bid, vows Governor Mwangi wa Iria Naivasha Police Commander Samuel Waweru said they were doing all they could to protect the staff and the inmates. He said they were working with the Prisons authorities to facilitate the treatment of the minor, who is not exhibiting severe symptoms.  All fresh convicts are undergoing testing before admission. "Some facilities are congested, and one wrong admission could lead to a major crisis,” said an officer.  At the Naivasha hospital, the superintendent Angeline Ithondeka said majority of those in isolation wards were men who had not been vaccinated.    Ministry of Health receives 180,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine as a donation from Gov't of Greece  HEALTH WATCH: How Covid-19 misinformation worldwide has created panic by misleading masses  KEMRI makes a breakthrough in the fight against Covid-19 by developing a Virus Transport Media (VTM) By James Munyeki and Kennedy Gachuhi | 2 hours ago By Irissheel Shanzu | 2 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 5 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 9 hours ago