Five students are among a group of people held at Njoro Police Station for contravening Covid-19 protocols.  The students from Njoro Day Secondary School were arrested on Friday and Saturday evenings at around 7 pm.  Njoro Sub County Police Commander Jonathan Kisaka said they will show no mercy to residents disregarding Covid-19 protocols.  He said that he is not aware that police arrested minors during the raid in Njoro town.  Aviation will soar high again  Budget smartphones saved us from pandemic induced shut-downs  Gen Badi calls for more oxygen supply to boost fight against Covid-19  Amref rolls out civic education campaigns to boost vaccines uptake “If police arrested minors, they will be released. But as far as I know, no uniformed student is being held at the police station,” said Mr Kisaka.  He said everybody, including minors, must adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines to curb its spread.  “We must make sure all Covid-19 protocols are adhered to,” he said.  He said those arrested must pay a Sh2,000 police bond to be released or remain in cells until they are arraigned.  Eliud Kamau, a resident, said the five students were arrested and were told to pay the police bond to facilitate their release.  “We were told that it doesn’t matter who is arrested. They all must pay the police bond to be released,” said Kamau.  Margaret Wanjiku said she was called by a landlady when her son was arrested.  Wanjiku said that her son is in Form Three and is 16-years-old.  “My son was arrested on Saturday evening. I am in Thika, and I urge the officers to release him because he is a minor,” she said.  dchege@standardmedia.co.ke       Ministry of Health receives 180,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine as a donation from Gov't of Greece  HEALTH WATCH: How Covid-19 misinformation worldwide has created panic by misleading masses  KEMRI makes a breakthrough in the fight against Covid-19 by developing a Virus Transport Media (VTM) By Winfrey Owino | 3 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 5 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 8 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 9 hours ago