Baringo Senator Gideon Moi addresses journalists after attending a service at Kinyui Salvation Army church in Matungulu. September 19, 2021. [David Gichuru, Standard]  One Kenya Alliance (OKA) principals have allayed fears of a fallout, saying they will stick together and form the next government after the 2022 election.  Addressing faithful at Kinyui Salvation Armey Church in Matungulu, Machakos County, yesterday, Kanu chairman Gideon Moi assured that OKA principals were firmly united.  “I want to assure Kenyans that together with Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula, we will march ahead united. We are confident that OKA team will produce the person who will occupy State House after next year’s General Election,” he said.    Kalonzo to be feted for peace efforts  Raila can help the other politicians beat Ruto by not going for presidency  Gideon: I won't be distracted by chest-thumping loud minority  Tame fuel price spike – Baringo Senator Gideon Moi Gideon said the alliance was open to working with other leaders, and that their focus was on the transformative agenda.  “There are many pending issues which we need to fix in our country, key among them the skyrocketing prices of fuel, which have become unbearable to majority of citizens. We are assuring Kenyans that we will support any Motion that will be tabled in Parliament aimed at bringing down the fuel prices,” said the Baringo Senator.  He challenged Kenyans to exercise caution when electing leaders.  In an apparent reference to Deputy President William Ruto, who has been blaming the “Handshake” between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga for stalled government projects, Gideon said it was wrong for leaders not to take responsibility for their actions or lack of it.   “Kenyans must interrogate themselves on why the country ended up in the current difficult situation. Let’s not be naïve. We should ask what exactly went wrong since 2013 making this country what it is. We can’t whitewash the truth and attempt to blame others yet we know very well where the problems began,” he said.  “We must warn Kenyans not to listen to naysayers because we have to see the genesis of all these problems facing the country. Where were they before when they were in government and doing what they were doing as opposed to doing what they were supposed to do? This is the time to pave way for a new team to carry on in order to clean up,” Gideon added.  Gideon was accompanied by Matungulu MP Stephen Mule and Machakos Senator Agnes Kavindu, who said OKA was the ultimate solution to the country’s political and economic challenges. “We are confident that OKA will address the challenges facing Kenyans once we take the next government. Our focus is to build a strong, cohesive and working nation and rid the country of corruption and high cost of living,” said Mr Mule.  And while addressing faithful at Chabuene Methodist Church in North Imenti Constituency yesterday, Mudavadi said: “We have the calendar and we are still within the time frame. We are talking to more leaders to join us at OKA so that we build a formidable alliance that will go on to form the government.”   He called for political tolerance and urged the Church to preach peace and conduct civic education. “The Church should help us in educating our people on the importance of electing leaders of moral standing to leadership.”   Seneta Gideon Moi aelezea matumaini yake kuwa mahakama itatoa uamuzi bora kuhusu mchakato wa BBI  Seneta Gideon Moi awaonya wanakandarasi baada ya mradi wa ujenzi kukuwama | MBIU WIKENDI Sehemu ya 2  Senator Gideon Moi calls upon the Mt. Kenya region leaders to join the One Kenya Alliance By Ndung’u Gachane | 4 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 10 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 10 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 16 hours ago