Banditry attacks in Laikipia County have continued despite the ongoing security operations.  On Wednesday, suspected bandits believed to be from Baringo County attacked Wangwaci Village in Laikipia West, where they shot dead a 65-year-old man identified as Charles Maina.   According to Githiga Ward MCA Peter Thomi, the bandits then stole 25 head of cattle.  This brings to nine the number of people killed in the last one month.   Thomi said the bandits drove away with the animals towards the vast Laikipia Nature Conservancy.   One killed in fresh Laikipia attacks  Leaders pledge to rally fighting communities embrace peace  Locals want livestock allowed to graze in ADC farm linked to Ruto  Doctors' union want Governor Ndiritu Muriithi cited for contempt   He said the man was grazing the animals when more than 20 bandits attacked. "They first shot in the air then drove away with the animals. The residents later realised the man had been shot dead," said Thomi.  The attack happened at around 2pm. "Sadly, this happened during the day despite the heavy presence of security officers," he said.   He claimed some communities were being allowed to move their animals while others were still grazing in the region. "We want all the illegal grazers to remove their animals from private farms. We do not want discrimination," he said.   The incident took place as Governor Ndiritu Muriithi held a peace meeting in Ol Moran to unite the warring communities. "This is very sad. We want to unite every community so that they can live peacefully. I have been engaging community elders to unite them for the last two weeks," said the governor.   County commissioner Joseph Karani said police were pursuing the attackers. "We cannot allow this to happen anymore," he said.   CS Fred Matiang'i says the Government is committed to addressing the insecurity in Laikipia County  Kamket Kizimbani: Mbunge wa Tiaty amekamatwa jana kuhusiana na mapigano eneo la Laikipia  Laikipia county Gov't enters into a lease agreement to enable it scale-up infrastructure development By Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 hour ago By Obare Osinde | 1 hour ago By Nderitu Gichure  | 12 hours ago By James Munyeki | 12 hours ago