Back row from left: University of Embu Chancellor Prof. Musili Wambua, Education CS Prof. George Magoha, Embu University Chair of Council Dr. Kennedy Okong'o and VC Prof. Daniel Mugendi. [Muriithi Mugo, Standard]  Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha has dismissed critics of the Competency Based Curriculum (CBC) and said the education system is on the right path.  “For once, Kenya’s education sector is on the right trajectory by focusing on skills and competencies of learners other than ranking and cut-throat competition that has been at the center of the sector for long,” Magoha said yesterday.  He was speaking at the sixth graduation ceremony at the University of Embu, where 1,570 graduands were awarded various diplomas and degrees.  The CS said there should be no heroes in the process, and that it was only aimed at transforming the education system.  CBC: Yes, the train left the station, but serious issues still abound  Fierce CBC battle heads to court  State begins review of curriculum after outcry from parents  Magoha must apply better methods to keep all learners in class Corporate institution  He also challenged graduates to be job creators and not jobseekers by making use of the knowledge gained in school.  “Don’t fool yourself to stay for 10 years awaiting employment when you can be adaptable and take what is available,” the CS said.  Prof Magoha hailed the institution for scooping top position in the corporate institution ranking, which he attributed to good governance and team work.  The university was ranked the best State cooperative in the country during the 2019/2020 public service performance contracting evaluations.  University of Embu vice chancellor Prof Daniel Mugendi said the institution has been recording exponential growth since its inception six years ago, from a student population of 123 to over 9,410 this year.  “We are currently in partnership with the Kenya Urban Roads Authority to improve the roads within the university to bitumen standards.  The university, he said, has introduced a scholarship scheme to enable the best performing undergraduates in every graduation to transition to masters programme.  The institution plans to introduce new programmes including the institute of technology and capacity building.  Prof Musili Wambua, the university chancellor, advised the graduates to be strong and rise above the social and economic challenges caused by the pandemic.   New Sports Curriculum: Gov't launches physical education and sports policy in accordance with CBC  Serikali yazindua sera mpya ya elimu ya mazoezi kwa mujibu wa kanuni za utekelezaji wa mtaala wa CBC  Grade 5 Rollout: Teachers attend training on the CBC competency-based curriculum By Kariuki Waihenya | 8 hours ago By James Wanzala | 9 hours ago By Antoney Luvinzu | 10 hours ago By Wycliffe Osabwa and Robert Wesonga  | 11 hours ago