Police arrested the minor at a local primary school. [File, Standard]  Police in Nandi are investigating an incident where a 15-year-old boy allegedly hit a farm caretaker with a stone leading to his death.  The boy is reported to have trespassed into a parcel of land manned by the deceased, Jackson Liboyo Kaderathe, while on his way back home from school on Monday evening.  Kadera, 44, then intercepted the Standard Seven pupil in one of the local primary schools in Kapsimatwo and warned him against passing through the tea and beans plantation.  According to the area assistant chief Philip Magut, the man confronted the boy, who is also one of his neighbour's sons, and the drama degenerated into a fistfight.  Drunk and disorderly primary school learners: Between parents, teachers and the alcohol vendor, who is to blame?  Pupils arrested after returning from lunch break while drunk  Teachers face disciplinary action over photo of pupils tied to tree  Boy arrested ‘for beating father to death’ over reluctance to enrol him in Form One "The boy picked a stone from the farm periphery and hit Kadera on his forehead. He collapsed, but recovered after first aid was administered to him at the scene," he said.  It was until Tuesday morning when the neighbours found his body in his house.  "He was lying in a pool of blood. It seems, even after the fight, the bleeding continued, and this could have led to his demise," said Magut.  The police arrested the minor at a local primary school and took him to Singhor police station for interrogation.  Tindiret OCPD Abdulahi Jire said the boy is a key suspect in the death of the caretaker according to preliminary investigations.  "He will be presented to court once the police conclude the investigation," he noted.  The incident comes barely a month after another teenager stabbed his father to death for not providing him with school fees to join Form One in Tindiret.    Standard one pupils in Mombasa are the first beneficiaries of the free laptops  Several people injured in multiple Nakuru accidents  Why Jubilee’s much-hyped laptops for primary schools project may finally become a reality By Nikko Tanui | 10 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 1 day ago By Michael Saitoti | 1 day ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 day ago