The leadership of the Kenya African National Union (KANU) says it will field a presidential candidate in the upcoming General Election.  In a meeting with delegates in Mombasa on Thursday, September 23, the party’s Secretary-General Nick Salat said they will unveil their presidential candidate in the upcoming Annual General Meeting.  “KANU will be a party to reckon with in the coming election and we are ready to fight. Let us go back to the peace we had during our tenure,” said Salat.  The party is scheduled to meet its delegates from across the country at Bomas of Kenya on Thursday, September 30, where they will unveil their preferred candidate.  However, while addressing the over 400 delegates at the Coast, Salat hinted at having the party chairman run for presidency under the KANU ticket.  Wait for big announcement next week at Bomas, promises Gideon Moi  Elders begin talks to share political seats in 2022 polls  Race to shore up voter numbers as IEBC sets date for registration  Kenyans in eleven countries to vote in next year's election “We don’t need an aggressive leader.  We need a person who is ready to serve the country, not in the manner some have shown to be aggressive and they want it by force,” Salat remarked.  Salat’s remarks come hours after delegates endorsed the party’s national chairman Gideon Moi to run for presidency in next year’s elections during a meeting in Diani, Kwale County, on Wednesday, September 23.  The delegates said Gideon was a sober leader and best-placed to inject fresh blood into governance in the race to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta.   Seneta Gideon Moi aelezea matumaini yake kuwa mahakama itatoa uamuzi bora kuhusu mchakato wa BBI  Seneta Gideon Moi awaonya wanakandarasi baada ya mradi wa ujenzi kukuwama | MBIU WIKENDI Sehemu ya 2  Senator Gideon Moi calls upon the Mt. Kenya region leaders to join the One Kenya Alliance By Jacob Ngetich  | 1 hour ago By Patrick Beja | 1 hour ago By Steve Mkawale | 1 hour ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 1 hour ago