Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria (centre). [Boniface Gikandi, Standard]  Political parties are camping in Mt Kenya region to woo members in readiness for the 2022 General Election, The Standard has learnt.   In towns across the region, the outfits are setting up offices and painting them up.   Usawa Kwa Wote party has more than 50 offices, The Service Party (TSP) allied to former Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri has erected billboards in Nyeri and Laikipia while Chama Cha Kazi of Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has opened offices in Mt Kenya and Nairobi.    2022 election: They’ve let State agents loose on me, cries out National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi   Why Mount Kenya region is the darling of 2022 presidential aspirants  Kenyans should question elected representatives, tell them they don’t deserve another chance  Coming of age of Moses Kuria and what he sees in Uhuru, Ruto and Raila National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria, Kiunjuri, former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo and businessman Jimmy Wanjigi are among those who have declared interest in the presidency.  Yesterday, Iria claimed there was a plot to auction Mt Kenya region to ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto.  The Usawa Kwa Wote party leader said he was recruiting members. “I will not attend meetings called by people campaigning for MCA, MP, senator and governor. I am a presidential candidate with a national network. I am meeting Kenyans from far as Nyanza and North Eastern,” said Iria.   Youth leader Linford Mutembei said Raila was gaining support in the Mt Kenya region. “Raila has the best approach compared to some local leaders driven by personal interest,” said Mutembei.  Political analyst Benjamin Mwangi said Kiunjuri and Kuria’s bid to unite Mt Kenya residents is welcome, but won’t go far.   Exploring the preparedness and the key timeliness of the IEBC to conduct the 2022 General Elections  Senator Gideon Moi calls upon the Mt. Kenya region leaders to join the One Kenya Alliance  Rift in Mt. Kenya with Kikuyu Elders divided over Muturi's installation as spokesman of the region By Jacob Ngetich  | 6 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 6 hours ago By John Shilitsa | 6 hours ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 6 hours ago