Scholars from Al-Azhar University of Egypt at Masjid Riyadh Lamu on Monday, September 27, 2021. They urged Muslims across the country to follow the true teachings of religion with caution of an upsurge in deviant teachings. [Courtesy, Standard]  Muslims across the country have been asked to follow the true teachings of religion with following an upsurge in deviant teachings.   According to scholars from Al Azhar University in Egypt, who presided over a lecture at the Riyadh Mosque in Lamu County on Monday, the Quran has the right teachings but there are those who are taking advantage of the naivety of the youth and teaching the opposite.  Sheikh Abdelmeguid Elsayed from Al Azhar University said it was time religion became a key driver for the youth, noting that many a youth were now walking away from religious teachings, and now choosing a different lifestyle.  "Mosques are losing youth to the world. The number of people going to religious institutions is reducing and this should be a worry, " said Sheikh Elsayed.  Muslim scholars on drugs - Swahili   Muslim scholars on drugs - Swahili  He added: “Terror cells are targeting our youth and they are unrelenting. If we do not go back to the roots, we may lose our youth to the world.”  Taking the example of Lamu, where the lecture was held, the scholars, backed by their Kenyan counterparts, insisted on the need for Muslims, especially the youth to abide by the plain teachings of Islam.  “The youth in Lamu are increasingly being recruited into terror groups and quite often enticed by wrong teachings of Islam. We urge the youth to abide by the plain teachings of Islam,” said Sheikh Ramadhan Mohamed.  The scholars, who have been on a mission in different parts of the country, spreading the gospel of embracing the real teachings of Islam and peaceful co-existence between religious outfits, noted that in the course of their studies, it has been found that there is a sharp decline in the uptake of religion, especially among the young people.  The Al Azhar mission from Egypt has pledged to support the initiative with scholarships to youth, both within and without the county.  By Patrick Beja | 15 hours ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 19 hours ago By Philip Mwakio | 3 days ago By Josphat Thiong’o  | 3 days ago