Tiaty MP William Kamket when he was arrested. [Steve Mkawaleh,Standard]  Tiaty MP William Kamket has been taken to the Nakuru Law Courts, where he is expected to face incitement to violence charges.  He was arrested at his Baringo home over suspected links to the Laikipia violence.  Police sources say the MP is being brought to Nakuru for grilling by the DCI.  His arrest comes hours after former Laikipia North MP Mathew Lempurkel was arrested at his Ongata Rongai home in Kajiado County.  Tiaty MP Kamket and former legislator Lempurkel arrested over Laikipia violence  Kamket: Ruto’s anger has blinded him, he should quit  Moi calls for leaders to embrace peace and unity  Kamket, two MCAs acquitted of incitement charges in Kapedo killings Lempurkel was also arrested over links to the Laikipia killings.  Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya earlier on said politicians were to blame for the violence that has left over eight people dead and scores displaced.  Natembeya took a swipe at local politicians saying they are the ones who are funding the violence.  "When they go to Nairobi they pretend to be good people but on the ground, they are the ones who are funding the violence. A time has come for them to stop shading those crocodile tears," he said.  Natembeya while warning of stern action and said several politicians on police radar would be arrested.  Kamket was, in February, arrested and grilled over Kapedo clashes in Turkana County.  He was later released after about five hours of grilling.  The arrests come amid concerns of armed bandits who have terrorised residents of Laikipia West Constituency for over a month now.  On Tuesday the alleged bandits launched a daring daylight attack at Mirigwit village moments after security personnel began an operation.  The gang struck exactly an hour after Natembeya launched the operation at Ol Moran trading centre.  This is despite the fact that the government imposed a dusk to dawn curfew in the area amid efforts to flush out the bandits.  While declaring the area as disturbed, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said the security operation would commence immediately.  Reports indicate over 12 people have now been killed in the region over the last three weeks following the wave of banditry attacks.   Mahakama kuu yabatilisha uamuzi wa kumwondoa mamlakani Baringo William Kamket  Baringo county speaker William Kamket reinstated after he won a case that sought his suspension  Baringo county speaker William Kamket reinstated after ouster By Antony Gitonga | 3 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi and James Munyeki | 6 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 9 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 10 hours ago