Inspector-General of Police Hillary Mutyambai. [Courtesy]  The Inspector-General of police Hillary Mutyambai has said normalcy has been restored in areas affected by the clashes in Laikipia County after security operations were heightened in the area.  This comes as schools in the Ol Moran area reopened with a low turnout of learners on the first day of reopening in most schools.  In his weekly engage the IG session on Twitter, the police boss said that a multi-agency team of security officials had flashed out the bandits who had been attacking the residents for the past weeks.  “Bandits have been flashed out by a multi-agency security team and normalcy has resumed in the affected areas,” he said in a tweet.  Schools in Laikipia record low turn up of pupils as security is restored  Glimmer of hope as schools resume learning in Laikipia  Picking up pieces of life after two months of conflict in Laikipia  The Laikipia pain “We strive to ensure normalcy returns in Laikipia and its environs. The operation continues,” Mutyambai responded to a tweet.  Further, the senior officer said that the police service would engage community leaders and local stakeholders in peace and security initiatives as a measure to ensure lasting solutions to the bandit attacks in Laikipia and Baringo.  This even as more high-ranking police officers landed in the area to aid in the ongoing security operation and guarding learning centres in the area as was directed by the Interior CS Dr Fred Matiang’i.  However, a spot check in the area by The Standard established that most of the 16 schools shut due to insecurity did not reopen on Monday morning as was expected.   CS Fred Matiang'i says the Government is committed to addressing the insecurity in Laikipia County  Kamket Kizimbani: Mbunge wa Tiaty amekamatwa jana kuhusiana na mapigano eneo la Laikipia  Laikipia county Gov't enters into a lease agreement to enable it scale-up infrastructure development By Antony Gitonga | 5 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 5 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 8 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 9 hours ago