A schoolgirl who had been sent home over Sh29,177 fees arrears today ventured into city streets to beg for assistance from well-wishers.  Clad in her school uniform and displaying a bold banner, 15-year-old Mellan Njeri Njuguna of Kihumbu-ini Secondary School in Murang'a County said she was sent home on September 10 but her mother was unable to pay her fees.  When The Standard caught up with her around 1:45pm, the student and her friend had already covered sections of Langata Road, Parliament Road, Processional Way, Kenyatta Avenue, Moi Avenue and other city roads pleading for help and had barely raised Sh500.     "We arrived at the city centre around 8am. She is my friend and neighbour that is why I accompanied her since I know her and the family," Mary Wanjiru who accompanied Njeri said.  Teachers adequately trained on CBC, Magoha says  CBC is here to stay, Magoha says as concerns rise  State to finance Sh800m university engineering facility  Six city schools under probe as parents decry illegal charges     The Form Two student says her wish is to get the money and go back to sit her end of term exams in a week's time.  When contacted, her mother Anne Wangechi Mureithi said Njeri is her firstborn daughter and admitted that she is unable to raise school fees.  "I'm just a casual labourer and I'm the only one providing for her and other three siblings," she claimed.  "She has been in and out of school and when she arrived home on September 10, I had no other option and that is how we decided to write the banner and allow her to travel from Ruiru to Nairobi," added Wangechi.  When The Standard called the school, a secretary who responded to our inquiry said she was aware of the student's case and that the girl was away with others who were sent home over fee arrears.  "It is true that she has been having challenges but the mother should have visited the school and talk to us," she said.    CS Magoha assures Kenyans of Integrity in the Form One selection exercise set to begin this week  Education CS Fred Matiangi releases 2015 KCSE Results   Education CS Fred Matiang’i launches the Form One selection process By Josphat Thiong'o | 4 hours ago By Brian Okoth and Kamore Maina | 4 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 1 day ago By Paul Ogemba | 1 day ago