Interior Cabinet Secretary has said the government will help resettle residents displaced in Laikipia banditry attacks. [Courtesy]  Interior Cabinet Secretary Dr Fred Matiang’i has reassured victims of the ongoing Laikipia clashes of resettlement as investigations into the source of the violence are ongoing.  This comes hours after security officers in the area said that eight people, among them three police officers, have died since the clashes began about a month ago.  Through his official Twitter account, Matiang’i said that security officers in the region were working hard to ensure peace and security is restored in the area.  “The government will assist displaced residents to resettle after recent attacks in Laikipia even as we ramp up security and other measures to restore calm and peaceful coexistence among communities in the region.  Matiangi says Uhuru, Raila will chart his path  Make public what you pay KRA from poultry farm, Tuju tells DP  Laikipia residents terrified about surge in banditry, killings   Arrest politicians behind banditry attacks in Laikipia, Waruguru tells CS Matiang’i Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya raised concerns over access to weapons by the suspected bandits adding that four civilians and two officers were nursing injuries sustained from the chaos.  "Eight people, among them security officers have been killed and that was before the security operation. We have put up enough security where residents live),” Natembeya said today.  “The bandits in Laikipia don't have sophisticated weapons than our police officers. We will ensure we collect proper evidence to take them to court,” he said.  The ongoing investigations have led to the arrests of Tiaty MP William Kamket and former Laikipia North MP Matthew Lempurkal.  Police say the duo will be arraigned in court on incitement charges once investigations are completed.   Impeaching Matiang'i: Guns trained at CS Fred Matiang'i with leaders divided over impeachment plans  Je, mpango wa wabunge kumg'atua Waziri Fred Matiang'i utafaulu?  Matiang'i appolgises for major irregularities in the 2015 KCSE examiniations By Antony Gitonga | 3 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi and James Munyeki | 6 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 10 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 12 hours ago