After trekking for 12 days hoping to meet President Uhuru Kenyatta and personally request him to intervene and have construction Kabarnet Stadium in Baringo County resume, former chief Joseph Malatit finally arrived in Nairobi on Monday afternoon.  If constructed, Malatit from Kimoso village said, said the stadium would help many young people he said are wasting away as the facility remains in a deplorable state.  The former administrator, who throughout his 350-kilometre walk was dressed in a white tracksuit and carried a banner with the words; ‘Tuokoe Kabarnet Stadium’, crossed six counties to reach the capital hoping to meet the President and present his petition to him.  "Construction of the stadium stalled and the facility is currently in a bad state. There are so many youth in then area who are talented athletes and footballers, among other sports talents, but are now engaging in alcoholism and immorality because the stadium cannot be used in its current state," said Malatit.    Man's 10-day walk to see President Uhuru  Retired administrator pushing on to bring stadium home, meet Natembeya, daughter  Retired administrator walking to State House over stalled stadium  He added: "I may never use the stadium myself; I am doing this for the many young people in that area. I have made this sacrifice hoping construction of the stadium will be revived."  "The facility is in a bad condition at the moment. Even the perimeter wall that had been erected around it has since been pulled down."  And even though the retired chief was not lucky enough to meet Uhuru, he has not lost hope of ever having a one-on-one talk with him over the facility.   Even then, he was able to secure an appointment with top Sports ministry officials whom he is hoping to meet and present his petition.  "I have received a call from the ministry of Sports, they booked me to meet the Principal Secretary. However, I will not leave Nairobi until I meet the President. That way, I’ll have accomplished my mission," said Malatit.  He also delivered his petition to Safaricom, seeking the company's support to establish a world-class stadium in Baringo County.  "I delivered my letter and they pledged to support my quest. The stadium will not only benefit the young people but traders who will set business near the playground to serve those who will be playing and working at the facility," he said.  "I understand there are inadequate resources to do all projects Kenyans may need but we can achieve a few critical ones if we pull together. This particular project will help young talented people to horn their skills."  Malatit's walk was planned in August last year, just a year after his retirement.   When The Standard caught up with him, Malatit had his three pairs of shoes that are torn, perhaps indicative of how torturous his journey was as well as how determined he is to see the stadium functional.  Along the way, Malatit met people, including motorists, who took time to encourage him. Others offered him money for lunch.  Malatit said that after the journey, he realised how peaceful and hospitable Kenyan's are, based on the treatment they gave him on his way to Nairobi.  He also praised traffic police officers who he said supported him financially and ensured his safety as he trekked.  Before setting out, Malatit packed one and a half kilogrammes of honey and some water. Along the way, he would buy tea and chapati for his breakfast, mixed honey and water for his lunch and spent his nights in hotels.  "The trek was most challenging in Baringo due to the hot weather. I also persevered against the cold weather in Limuru but I reached the capital safely. I lost three kilos," he said.  Some city residents joined the former chief in the trek.  "His mission is a challenge to all of us because he should actually be resting after retiring. He is pursuing a noble course,” said Duncan Cheserem, who walked with him from Kangemi to Nairobi Central Business District.  Last week, Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya received the former administrator at his office. Natembeya hailed Malatit for taking the initiative saying the stadium if completed, will serve the interest of the people of Baringo.    jmutura@standardmedia.co.ke       By James Wanzala | 3 days ago By Betty Njeru | 3 days ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 4 days ago By Patrick Vidija | 5 days ago