Chief Justice Martha Koome says there are no plans to increase legal fees for parties filing disputes in court.  Justice Koome, who spoke during Spice FM’s Situation Room show yesterday, said litigants will access courts at a lower cost than in the past.  According to her, the new court fees regime would be out of a joint effort by the Judiciary, Law Society of Kenya and Court Users Committees.  “There was misreporting that we have increased court fees. Court fees are not in the realm of the Chief Justice. It’s a matter done by a dedicated committee of the Law Society of Kenya and the Judiciary and it was rationalised,” she said.    Martha Koome: Lack of staff at CJ’s office was my biggest shocker  Judiciary to receive additional 3,000 police officers – CJ Martha Koome  Death certificates to cost Sh2,000 in new court fees  Why things are working for CJ Koome “It’s going to be cheaper as you won’t make separate payments for the documents you file,” she said. Koome was responding to reports that the Judiciary had hiked court fees.  She said the new system had instead consolidated fees schedules for various services and documents which were being paid separately.  She said that in the Environment and Land Court, the fees for filing of unliquidated claims had reduced from Sh70,000 for general damages and Sh1,500 per prayer sought for to a minimum figure of Sh2,000.  “Stakeholders engaged included Law Society of Kenya and Court Users Committees. The public was engaged by a publication of proposed fee schedule in an advertisement in the newspapers in August 2020,” she added.   CJ Martha Koome's 100 days in Office: The CJ wants to leave a legacy and have all courts digitized  Uhuru vs Judiciary: High Court deals the president another blow by quashing Uhuru's Executive order  Dr. Mukhisa Kituyi's take on the war between the Executive vs Judiciary & the troubled Mumias By Grace Ng’ang’a | 4 hours ago By Frankline Sunday | 4 hours ago By Macharia Kamau | 4 hours ago By Macharia Kamau | 4 hours ago