Gertrude Chepkoech was stabbed to death on Wednesday, September 29. [Courtesy]  A student of Laikipia University died on Wednesday night after being stabbed by her roommate’s boyfriend.  Gertrude Chepkoech, who was attacked in her hostel room, succumbed at the scene, police said.  It remains unclear why the suspect killed Chepkoech, a First-Year student pursuing a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Communication and English Language Studies.  After fatally stabbing the student in the head and stomach, the suspect, identified only as Ezra, turned the knife on himself, sustaining stab injuries in the neck and abdomen.  We have lost over Sh20m to illegal grazers, says rancher  Conflict in the north is not just about resources, there’s more  Disinformation and myths about chaos in Laikipia  Laikipia bandits attack in broad daylight, kill man and drive away livestock He was taken to the Nyahururu County Referral Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries.  Nyahururu Sub-County Police Commander Mary Kiema said Chepkoech, 19, was alone in the hostel, which is located outside the university, when Ezra stormed.  “We have been informed that the suspect was a regular visitor to the hostels, and that he was in a relationship with the deceased’s friend-cum-roommate,” said Kiema.  According to the police boss, Ezra had previously been warned against entering the hostels, given he was a nonstudent.  Mary Njeri, a cleaner at the hostels, told The Standard that she heard distress screams emanating from Chepkoech’s room.  “When I entered the room, I found Chepkoech lying in a pool of blood on the floor. Standing next to her body, was the suspect, who stabbed himself repeatedly in the neck and stomach upon seeing me. I alerted the hostel’s management, who took the young man to hospital,” said Njeri.  “I had, previously, seen the man entering the hostels on multiple occasions,” added the cleaner.  Area police chief, Kiema, said Ezra died on Wednesday night while undergoing treatment.  The bodies of Chepkoech and Ezra have been moved to the Nyahururu County Referral Hospital morgue as investigations continue.   CS Fred Matiang'i says the Government is committed to addressing the insecurity in Laikipia County  Kamket Kizimbani: Mbunge wa Tiaty amekamatwa jana kuhusiana na mapigano eneo la Laikipia  Laikipia county Gov't enters into a lease agreement to enable it scale-up infrastructure development By Daniel Chege | 9 hours ago By James Munyeki | 9 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 17 hours ago By Pkemoi Ng’enoh and Denish Ochieng | 17 hours ago