Deputy President William Ruto has lauded that Central Kenya "faced the government's wrath for speaking the truth against the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI)".  The DP yesterday revisited the explosive letter by Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata to President Uhuru Kenyatta on the unpopularity of BBI in Mt Kenya region, which cost the legislator his Senate majority whip position in February.  Meeting leaders from Murang'a County at his Karen official residence, the DP together with his top United Democratic Alliance (UDA) lieutenants showered Kang’ata with praises over his stand for the “truth”.  “Many people, when given the Chief Whip's vehicle and a big office, would choose to compromise their principles but when this gentleman (Kang'ata) saw there was a truth that needed to be said, he said he needed to write a letter,” said Ruto.    Lessons of Uhuru, Ruto divorce for future deputy presidents  President Uhuru stuck with a DP he does not want  IEBC: Sh2b bills, courts ruling holding us back  Ruto: Government wasted four years on BBI In February, Kang’ata was axed from the position of Senate Majority Whip after penning a letter to President Kenyatta, asking him to rethink the BBI process, as it was unpopular in the region.  “Based on a survey I conducted during these December holidays, I have come to the conclusion BBI is unpopular in Mt Kenya,” read Kang’ata’s letter.  Ruto recalled, “The letter brought him a lot of problems but that is the test of a leader. A leader has to speak the truth.”  Ironically, Kang'ata had presided over the ouster of Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki (Tharaka/Nithi), Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo/Marakwet) and Majority Whip Susan Kihika (Nakuru).  He did not stop there, he also supervised the removal of various committee chairs and their deputies allied to the DP, including the disciplinary of six senators who skipped President Kenyatta's State House Senate Parliamentary Group (PG) meeting.  Kang'ata's letter shocked the ruling Jubilee Party, and this was the beginning of his downfall as he was accused of breach of confidentiality.  After his ouster, Kang’ata switched camps and joined Ruto’s UDA at a time when many Jubilee legislators found the fast-growing party as a political safe haven.  Ruto asked Murang’a residents to support UDA leaders in the county, assuring the electorate that he will ensure they work for them.  “I have been in politics for some time now and I have vied from 1997 and have never lost. Once you elect them, I cannot allow them to fail you,” he said.  Ruto and the leaders present supported Kang'ata for Murang'a governor's seat next year.   CS Matiang'i hits again as Deputy President William Ruto fights back | PRESS REVIEW  Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana  DP William Ruto has been stopped from travelling to Uganda where he was headed for a private visit By Betty Njeru | 41 minutes ago By Julius Chepkwony | 2 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 2 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 3 hours ago