Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui has raised a red flag over the surge of infections in education facilities within the county.  While giving a brief on the Covid-19 situation, Kinyanjui revealed that August was the worst month since the pandemic hit the country.  “In August alone, we lost 196 people to Covid-19 related complications. We had 2,005 confirmed cases during the period,” said Kinyanjui.  The governor regretted that the county had lost at least 46 people from education facilities during the month.  Beards: Making a statement in ever- changing fashion world  Lack of national address system puts a drag on e-commerce  With Tokyo Olympics over, let us shift our focus to Paris 2024  Seal all loopholes to curb theft of Covid-19 vaccines “23.5 per cent of the total deaths recorded in August were victims from the education sector who also included teachers and learners. If we don’t manage Covid-19 in our education sector, we are likely to have a great challenge in the sector,” said Kinyanjui.  During the month, 41 persons were under ICU care, and an average of 110 needed oxygen support.  Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  “Naivasha, Nakuru East, Bahati and Gilgil were the most affected areas. Sub counties like Kuresoi South which previously recorded low fatalities had 31 deaths,” said Kinyanjui.  The health department further reported that there had been a spike in the number of critical cases due to late reporting despite treatment being free in public health facilities.  “Many people have turned to self-diagnosis and self-medication. They are reporting symptoms suggestive of Covid-19 and remaining at home and only seek treatment when their condition has worsened,” he said.  The governor urged the public to turn up for treatment in public health facilities, noting that the county government has waived medical bills for Covid-19 patients amounting to over Sh500 million since March, last year.  “We are encouraged by the uptake of vaccines. We have fully vaccinated 102,000 people and another 55,000 have received the first jab. We have run out of vaccines but hope for more supplies from the national government,” the governor added.  The governor appealed to the national government to consider counties handling referrals from other counties for additional funding to better manage the pandemic, noting that Nakuru serves six other counties.      Tussle over the ownership of land in Ngongogeri, Nakuru threatening peace amongst disputing parties  A total of 24 unclaimed bodies to be buried in Nakuru upon expiry of a 21-day-period  Covid Downward Trend: Kenya records 86 new Covid-19 cases with positivity rate now at 3.1% By Peterson Githaiga | 3 hours ago By James Wanzala | 12 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 15 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 19 hours ago