Security officials are pursuing a 19-year-old man implicated in the murder of two ECDE pupils in Rachuonyo North Sub-county.  The suspect is accused of killing four-year-old Henry Ochieng and Vantaly Otieno, 5.  The children belong to different families living in Kawakungu, Kogweno Oriang’ West.  The man is reported to have been a worker at one of the children’s homes.  Grief as retired soldier kills his mother  Police search for man suspected of killing two pupils in Rachuonyo North   Family demands justice for brother allegedly killed for protecting wife  Man who slit wife’s throat in car had planned to visit her parents this weekend Bodies of the minors were discovered in River Sare on Saturday.  They left home with the suspect on Friday morning to look after cattle at a grazing field.  However, neither the suspect nor the children returned home that evening.  This prompted families of the children to start looking for them in the village that Friday evening, but in vain.  According to the area assistant chief Faraja Malit, the suspect and the children were seen last at the neighbouring Pap village at 6 pm.  The cattle were found in the village later at 3 am on Saturday. But the children were nowhere to be seen.  And later in the day, their bodies were found in River Sare.  Vantaly’s clothes had been dumped on the river bank and his body in the river.  About 200 meters away, the residents spotted Henry’s slippers before they spotted the body.  According to Malit, the children might have been strangled before being dumped into the river.  “The bodies had no visible injuries."  He said they were collaborating with the police to trace the suspect.  Police from Kendu Bay Police Station moved the bodies to Kendu Adventist Hospital Morgue at Gendia.   Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death  The widow of Jacob Juma has accused police of dragging their feet in the hunt for Juma’s killers By Harold Odhiambo | 1 hour ago By James Omoro | 2 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 21 hours ago By James Omoro | 23 hours ago