Ezra Chiloba has been appointed the Director-General of the Communications Authority of Kenya for the next four years. [File, Standard]  The Board of Directors at the Communications Authority has appointed former Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) Chief Executive Ezra Chiloba as the authority’s new Director-General.  Chiloba is set to serve in the position for the next four years.  In a statement, the authority’s Board chairman Kembi Gitura says the appointment was the result of a competitive recruitment process following the retirement of the former Director-General, Francis Wangusi. “The Board wishes to thank Mercy Wanjau, who has been acting in the position of Director-General of the Authority. Chiloba’s appointment takes effect immediately,” Kembi’s statement read in part.   Activist wants Chebukati jailed for contempt of court  Parties in hunt for diaspora votes in 6 more countries  EACC probes jobs board over staff promotions   Our elections need not cost an arm and a leg Chiloba, an advocate of the High Court of Kenya, is the immediate former Chief Executive Officer of the IEBC following his exit on October 12, 2018, shortly after the 2017 General Election.    Prior to his exit, Chiloba was suspended by IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati following procurement queries at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC).  While suspending him, Chebukati, at the time said Chiloba's suspension was to enable the commission to undertake a comprehensive audit of all the major procurements relating to the 2017 General Election and repeat poll, which was held on October 26.  Chiloba, however, filed a case averring that he and Chebukati had differences on issues.  Subsequently,  the Employment and Labour Relations Court ordered Chiloba's reinstatement.  Justice Stephen Radido ruled that Chiloba's suspension was unfair.  Months later Chiloba resigned from IEBC.  Chiloba holds an undergraduate degree in Law from the University of Nairobi a Master of Arts degree from Central European University in Hungary and a Master of Science degree in Program Management from the University of Oxford in the United Kingdom.  A postgraduate diploma in law holder from the Kenya  He holds further training in Corporate Governance, Projects Management, Collaborative Leadership and Monitoring and Evaluation.  Chiloba previously worked as a Team Leader and Deputy Chief of Party with Development Alternative Inc.  He was previously a Projects Analyst in charge of governance, electoral systems and processes with the United Nations Development Program in Nairobi.  He and the newly appointed Data Commissioner are both former employees at the IEBC.   ODM’s attempt to oust Chebukati from IEBC elicits mixed reactions | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  KENHA urges Kenyans plying the Nairobi-Nakuru highway to use alternative routes  Nairobi residents decry over Central Business District mugging, they want the police to intervene By Amos Kareithi | 4 hours ago By Kevine Omollo  | 4 hours ago By Lee Mwiti | 4 hours ago By Kamore Maina | 4 hours ago