Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe has put private hospitals on notice over what he termed as fleecing Kenyans seeking healthcare services.  Kagwe said the hospitals were making huge profits at the expense of hapless Kenyans.  The CS also took issue with the hospitals for detaining bodies due to outstanding bills.  “I am asking private health institutions to regulate themselves before we step in and issue certain orders. We won't allow Kenyans to be treated this way any further,” Kagwe said.  Three million vaccines so far administered as Covid-19 cases up by 260  Covid-19 vaccination: Exercise begins in prisons  Will Mutahi Kagwe jolt Mt Kenya, tilt race to State House?  Covid-19: 37 succumb as 394 people test positive in last 24 hours   At the same time, the CS told donor countries which supply Covid-19 vaccines to reconsider poor countries like Kenya for the vaccines instead of vaccinating their children who are not at a high risk.  “The diplomatic niceties that we engage in as friends without considering our plight is useless. There is no need of vaccinating children when adults are not,” Kagwe said.  The CS had visited the county headquarters to launch Kenya's accelerated Çovid-19 vaccination programme dubbed Kuwa shujaa, pata chanjo tufungue nchi.  Meanwhile, Kagwe said the government intends to intensify the Covid-19 vaccination through a mobile system that will take the vaccines into every home in remote areas of the country.  Kagwe called on all the counties to work together with community health centers to make the vaccine accessible to the people.  He said Kenya has received 6.5 million doses since the rollout began in the country but was in need of more owing to its population.   Ministry of Health says at least 5 counties are lagging behind in the ongoing vaccination exercise  CS Mutahi Kagwe asks Kenyans to be vigilant after Indian Covid variant was detected in the country  Waziri Kagwe ahimiza wakenya kuchangia damu kuanzia tarehe 12 hadi 14 mwezi huu | Mbiu ya KTN By DPPS | 5 hours ago By PSCU | 5 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 9 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 13 hours ago