Police have launched investigations into the incident. [Courtesy]  A 44-year-old man reportedly killed his two children before committing suicide in Nyakeogiro village in Kisii County.  The father of three is said to have quarrelled with his wife, Naomi Kerubo, over Sh150.  Kerubo told The Standard that her husband got angry when she refused to hand over all the money she had earned from doing some menial jobs. She said she handed him Sh850 and kept the rest.  According to Kerubu, her husband descended on her with kicks and blows, forcing her to seek refuge in a nearby home for the night.  Two children aged 4 and 5 murdered in Rachuonyo  Family demands justice for brother allegedly killed for protecting wife  Suicide is a result of distress and should not be punished  Man who slit wife’s throat in car had planned to visit her parents this weekend “I was shocked when I was informed on Sunday as I headed home that my husband and two children had been found dead in our house that morning with the children lying in a pool of blood while their father appeared to have committed suicide,” said Kerubo.  The distraught woman said they had been having frequent squabbles with her husband. She had on several occasions sought refuge at her rural home and involved her relatives and neighbours in trying to sort out their differences.  Kisii County police commander Francis Kooli told The Standard that the man reportedly hacked to death his seven-year-old son George Makori and five-year-old daughter Kayu Makori and later hanged himself.  “The bodies of the two children had deep wounds on their necks, while that of their father was found with a wire on the neck with a bloody machete lying next to the bodies. Blood was splattered all over the room with no suicide note found at the scene,” said Kooli.  The police boss said the bodies of the three were taken to the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital mortuary for postmortem.  Police have launched investigations into the incident that has left residents of Nyakeogiro village reeling in shock.   Kujitoa Uhai: Visa vya kujitoa uhai vimeongezeka haswa miongoni mwa vijana hapa nchini (Sehemu ya 3)  Death in a Cell: 29-year-old student allegedly committed suicide while in police custody in Makueni  Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed By Phares Mutembei | 6 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 10 hours ago By Robert Kiplagat  | 12 hours ago By Robert Amalemba | 12 hours ago