The pupils were allegedly tied to a tree by teachers as punishment. [Courtesy]  Education officials investigating the alleged torture of three pupils at Thiru Primary School in Nyahururu have recommended the prosecution of two senior teachers.  The team, led by Nyahururu Sub-county Deputy County Commissioner Moses Muroki visited the school on Wednesday and called on the DCI to investigates the two for allegedly tying the Standard Five pupils to a tree on August 27 as punishment.  "According to our investigations, it is true that they were tied to a tree for truancy. We have recommended that the DCI takes up the matter and prosecutes them," Muroki said.      Muriithi stands tall in Nyahururu as Gathu steals the show in Nyeri   Mother, three children die in house fire Muroki said one of the two teachers took the photos and posted them on the school WhatsApp group.  "How do you display pupils that you are supposed to guide being tortured? This is a serious matter," said Muroki. "We urge the DCI to fast-track this matter so that the children can get justice. Let it be a lesson to all of us.”  Condemning the act, Laikipia County Director of Children Services Ezekiel Mwanza said the teachers' disciplinary measure was inhuman. “It is unfortunate for teachers to display such kind of behaviour," said Mwanza.   Mwanza said that the department will open a protection and care file to trace the progress and recovery of the three affected pupils. “My department will offer counselling lessons to the affected children," he added.  He, at the same, called on teachers to ensure that they follow guidelines set by TSC when instilling discipline.   Rift Valley Teachers Service (TSC) Commission Quality Assurance Officer, Irene Kandenge, said disciplinary action will be taken against the two if found culpable.   Kenya National Association of Parents declared illegal and irrelevant by Ministry of Education  Unions and school heads agree to abide by the new fees guidelines issued by Ministry of Education  Deputy President William Ruto warns school heads against charging extra fees By Paul Ogemba | 5 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 11 hours ago By James Omoro | 12 hours ago By Nikko Tanui | 12 hours ago