A parking lot turned into a new international arrival unit at the JKIA. [George Mulala, Standard]  Kenya has been scrapped off Britain’s Covid-19 red-list, after six months.  The UK Government announced Friday evening that Kenya, Egypt, Bangladesh, Maldives, Oman, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and Turkey will now move from the red-list to Amber.  “From 4 am Wednesday, September 22, the eight countries will move from red to amber,” UK Foreign Travel advice (FTA) said.  TRAFFIC LIGHT TRAVEL UPDATE  From 4am Wednesday 22 September, the following destinations will move from RED ???? to AMBER ????  Bangladesh Egypt Kenya Maldives Oman Pakistan Sri Lanka Turkey  France calls UK quarantine rules discriminatory, excessive  US will not lift travel restrictions, citing Delta variant, White House says  Tourist numbers edge up after record 2020 slump  Airlines, holiday companies ramp up pressure on Britain to ease travel rules According to the FTA website, travel rules for countries not on the red-list will depend on an individual’s vaccination status.  For instance, if traveling to London from Kenya, you will need to take a Covid-19 test upon arrival in England, complete your passenger locator form 48 hours before arrival in the UK, and show mandatory proof that you have been fully vaccinated.  If partially vaccinated, the rules differ slightly in that “travelers are required to take a pre-departure Covid-19 test, three days before their arrival in the UK and book and pay for day two and day eight COVID-19 tests – to be taken after arrival in England.”  UK High Commissioner to Kenya Jane Marriot celebrated the move saying: “I know how this has been difficult but Kenya and the United Kingdom partnership remains strong.”  The UK issued a travel advisory for visitors originating from Kenya in April this year.  London added Kenya, the Philippines, Pakistan, and Bangladesh to its ‘red list over concerns of new Covid-19 variants.  Visitors from the four countries were denied entry into the UK from April 9.  In a tit-for-tat, Kenya retaliated a day later and issued a travel advisory for visitors coming into the country from the United Kingdom, also coupled with a set of conditions, terming the decision ‘discriminatory’.  In June, Kenya lifted the ban on flights from the United Kingdom (UK), but on condition that all passengers and crew arriving in the country from whichever part of the UK must be in possession of a valid Covid-19 negative PCR certificate.  By Josphat Thiong’o  | 16 minutes ago By Clay Muganda | 2 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 3 hours ago By Allan Mungai and Peter Ochieng | 9 hours ago