Central OCPD Adamson Bungei addresses the press after a businessman was robbed in Nairobi on September 8, 2021. [Denish Ochieng, Standard]  A businessman was robbed at the city centre after withdrawing money from the bank along Kimathi Street at around midday.  The three armed robbers attacked James Mwnagi minutes after withdrawing more than Sh684,000 and depositing some of it at a shop on Tom Mboya Street.  He was accosted at Moi lane.  The three robbers who are part of a gang that police call the Tsunami are suspected to have been trailing Mwangi.  “Some minutes to the incident around 12pm, I had checked into the bank along Kimathi Street to withdraw Sh684,000,” Mwangi told The Standard.  Beware of ‘Tsunami’ gang on the prowl in Nairobi  City Hall seeks to pick Public Service Board CEO  MCAs reject NMS bid for parking fees in estates  Man in court for attempting to steal Sh4m from bank “I took Sh228,000 to a shop at Beba Beba business centre and after depositing, I made my way back with Sh400,000 in an envelope. At the corridor around MKU Towers, I was attacked by three people from behind,” added Mwangi who is an ETR machines dealer.  He says the gang hit him on the nose and wrestled him to the ground after he initially refused to part with the cash. One of the gang members showed him a gun and he surrendered Sh400,000 that was in the envelope.  “I suspect they followed me from the shop where I deposited the first amount or could have been aware that I was from the bank. I remained with only Sh66,000 in my pocket, but they did not harm me.”   Central Police Station boss Adamson Bungei said officers on patrol noticed the commotion around Moi Lane.  He added, “One of them was armed and he attempted to engage our officers but they were swift enough to neutralise him. At the time two of the suspects managed to escape after the one who had the money splashed them in the air to confuse the public.”  Bungei said police recovered Sh107,000, a mobile phone and a homemade gun.  At the station, the suspects' phone was still ringing, among them, contacts saved as ‘Darling’ suspected to be his wife.  An undercover officer said there is a new gang operating in the CBD dubbed Tsunami targeting the public in deserted areas.  “They used to operate in some areas and use hand signals when pursuing a target. We are on their case because they have been captured on CCTV in town. They will not hide for long,” he said.   KENHA urges Kenyans plying the Nairobi-Nakuru highway to use alternative routes  Nairobi residents decry over Central Business District mugging, they want the police to intervene  Nguvu za KANU: Tawi la Nairobi la Kanu lakutana kujadili mikakati watakayotumia 2022 By Jacob Ng'etich | 2 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 3 hours ago By Pkemoi Ng’enoh | 3 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur and Kamore Maina | 3 hours ago