Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi has asked the electoral agency to address allegations that it plans to use the Huduma Namba instead of the ID number during voting in next year's elections.   Speaking at a funds drive in aid of Bishop Gatimu Kinyona Girls’ Secondary School in Murang’a County, Mudavadi asked the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to ensure the elections are held in strict adherence to the law.  “Our electoral laws recognise the national identity card or the passport as documents of voting. No law has been changed to allow any other document to be used,” he said.  The ANC leader urged IEBC to engage stakeholders in deliberations to ensure free and fair elections.  "We do not want the repeat of 2007/08 in our country. No blood should be shed in the coming elections. Our clarion call is for a peaceful election and all leaders should strive to campaign on the platform of peace,” he said.  Wafula Chebukati asks court to dismiss case seeking to bar him from office   IEBC to list six million new voters next month   Voter wants Chebukati out of next year's polls  IEBC: Sh2b bills, courts ruling holding us back Mudavadi urged voters to elect leaders of integrity to curb corruption.  He warned that some presidential candidates are angry and may seek revenge against perceived enemies once they ascend to office.   “Some of the people are full of anger. They go to bed with anger, wake up angry, walk angry, eat angry and even talk with a lot of anger. The country needs a unifying person who is humble,” he said.  The ANC leader promised to appoint more women in his government should he win the presidency next year.  He said women have made great strides in scaling the political ladder and they should be encouraged to aim higher.  Mudavadi who was hosted by Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege, encouraged the girl-child to aim at transiting to university and TVETs.  The ANC leader who was accompanied by his Narc Kenya party counterpart Martha Karua, MPs Kanini Kega, Jude Jomo, Naisula Leesuda, Alfred Agoi and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula, Mudavadi said his administration will put more emphasis on the revival of the agriculture sector to spur growth of the economy.  “Reviving the agriculture sector will be on my priority list for the Mt Kenya region and the whole country once I ascend to the presidency. I will introduce good agriculture practice and smart farming. I will improve the rural road networks so that the agricultural products can reach the markets in the shortest time possible and ease the doing of business for the traders,” he said.  Ms Karua said calls by Deputy President William Ruto to Mt Kenya leaders to fold their political parties and join UDA are misplaced and tantamount to returning the country to one-party state to stifle democracy.  She called for political unity of Mt Kenya to boost their bargaining power.     ODM’s attempt to oust Chebukati from IEBC elicits mixed reactions | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  Muungano wa NASA umevunjika rasmi baada ya ANC, Wiper na Ford Kenya kutangaza kujiondoa kwao  Raila Odinga has given the clearest indication yet that he is ready to work with One Kenya Alliance By George Njunge | 1 hour ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 1 hour ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 18 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 18 hours ago