Police in Nakuru are investigating an incident in which a doctor is accused of killing his two children, aged three and five, on Saturday night.  Afterward, the doctor unsuccessfully attempted suicide, area police commander Beatrice Kiraguri told The Standard.  Kiraguri said preliminary investigations indicate the doctor injected the children with a yet-to-be-established drug, leading to their death.  “The scene indicates some drugs were used on the children and on himself. A postmortem shall be conducted to establish what type of drug it was,” Kiraguri added.  Raila makes light of ‘mganga’ remarks by rivals, says it means he’s a medic  New plan to help police officers with mental challenges  Naivasha residents want footbridges along Nairobi-Nakuru highway to curb road accidents  Village in shock as man kills two children then commits suicide  The man is recuperating at the Nakuru Level Five Hospital while the bodies of the children were taken to the hospital's morgue.  He is said to have confessed to killing the children.  Police say he is yet to give more information about what happened.  At the time of the incident, the man's wife was not at home.  ?“We have communicated with the doctor’s wife, who says she was in Nairobi [at the time of the incident]. We shall establish what could have sparked her husband’s actions,” Kiraguri said.  “The police arrived at the scene and broke into the house. They found two children dead and their father, a doctor, unconscious,” Kiraguri said.  Neighbours who alerted the police said the man had had a disagreement with his wife before the incident.  The nature of the fallout was is still unclear.   Kujitoa Uhai: Visa vya kujitoa uhai vimeongezeka haswa miongoni mwa vijana hapa nchini (Sehemu ya 3)  Serikali ya kaunti ya Nakuru yatoa pendekezo la kuzuia uvuvi katika ziwa Naivasha  KENHA urges Kenyans plying the Nairobi-Nakuru highway to use alternative routes By Pkemoi Ngenoh | 2 hours ago By James Omoro | 3 hours ago By Robert Kiplagat  | 6 hours ago By Edward Kosut | 6 hours ago