Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i says his future political ambitions will be guided by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga.  Matiang'i who was speaking yesterday at Ekerenyo Playground in North Mugirango in Nyamira, said he had put more elaborate plans to ensure that he could be part of the next Government after the 2022 elections.  The CS, Health Principal Secretary Susan Mochache, Solicitor General Ken Ogeto and Nyamira Governor Amos Nyaribo launched the upgrading of project of Ekerenyo Subcounty Hospital to a referral hospital at a cost of Sh100 million. He said Uhuru and Raila could not be ignored when it comes to determining who should be the next president and that's why he was keenly following in their political footsteps.  "I want to assure the Gusii community that I am not going to let them down when it comes to political succession in this country. I am right in between President Kenyatta and his handshake co-principal Raila and I know my space is in between them," Matiangi said.    Uhuru says drought a national disaster, orders ministries to take swift action and help the needy  We will help resettle Laikipia IDPs, Matiang’i says  President Uhuru declares drought a national disaster  Lessons of Uhuru, Ruto divorce for future deputy presidents He said Kisii was ripe enough to have a candidate for the country’s presidency come the next polls and urged the community to register as voters in big numbers to make the dream of having him as the candidate from Gusii a reality. The CS revealed that he has already received blessings from the Gusii community to join other national leaders in bargaining for the community's political interests.  "I want to tell Kenyans that Kisii community will be right at the centre where the national cake will be shared and we will not be watching from outside," he said.  Matiangi was responding to calls by five MPs who challenged him to come out and declare his presidential candidature in next year's polls. The MPs, Ben Momanyi(Borabu), Samuel Arama (Nakuru West), Simba Arati (Dagoretti South), Jerusha Momanyi (Nyamira Woman MP) and Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache South) told the CS to declare his candidature so that they can start nationwide campaigns for him.   Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens  Raila Odinga has given the clearest indication yet that he is ready to work with One Kenya Alliance  Raila Odinga: Hio NASA kazi yake ilikwisha, lakini huko mbele tutakuja pamoja By Jacob Ng'etich | 2 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 3 hours ago By Pkemoi Ng’enoh | 3 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur and Kamore Maina | 3 hours ago