The High Court has barred the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) from auctioning a hospital’s imported solar power plant machines which are part of a Sh2 billion hospital project.  The machines were shipped in by Hamptons Hospital in Butere, Kakamega County. The hospital is associated with former Kenya Air Force officer Julius Mwale.  Justice Jairus Ngaah ordered KRA to halt its plan until the case filed by the hospital, challenging the taxman’s decision, is determined.  The solar power plant machines are two containers brought in by a company called New Southern Energy (NSE).   15 houses burnt in attacks over man's ailment and death  Sh60 million boost for persons with disabilities in Kakamega  Anger over sewer charges in Kakamega  Gang targeting schools, hotels and bars killed 13 in last one year The total cost of the Battery Energy Storage System, together with all the other hospital machinery and services related to installing them at the hospital coming up in Butere, is 199,650,424.15 dollars. Among them are three MRI machines worth Sh1.4 billion, with one of them costing Sh900 million.  The solar machines arrived on May 27, 2021, and were stored in a warehouse pending an application for tax exemption.   ”In order to preserve the substratum of the suit, I am convinced that leave granted should operate as stay. Prayer four of the summons is therefore granted,” Justice Ngaah directed.  Hamptons Hospital, through its lawyer Javier Munzala, told the court they imported the machines purposely for treatment of cancer.   Munzala said the hospital asked Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe to have it exempted from paying tax for the machines, a request the CS is said to have granted.  “The applicant (Hamptons) is a recognised medical provider and as such, is exempted from payment of VAT on goods imported in connection with providing healthcare in Kenya,” Munzala said.  He said Hamptons went ahead to produce a letter from CS Kagwe recommending the tax exemption to the  Treasury.  “The imported goods are unique, irreplaceable and worth a colossal sum of money. The applicant stands to suffer irreparable loss and damage that cannot be compensated by way of damages if the auction is allowed to proceed as planned,” Munzala said.  He argued that Kenyans will also suffer as they will not access the highest standards of healthcare if the auction is allowed to proceed. KRA had planed to hold the auction on Tuesday.  Hamptons Hospital, which is based in Butere, is setting up a specialty Level Four cancer hospital.  Hamptons claims the CS erroneously indicated the date of completion of project to be June 26, 2021, instead of June 23, 2023.  The PS Treasury went on to raise reservations on the exemption, but Hamptons says they have since straightened things up with him.  “As it stands, the reservations made by the PS Treasury have been addressed, and there is no doubt whatsoever that the applicant’s goods have been exempted from tax,” the court papers stated.  The hospital is said to have struck a deal with New Southern Energy (NSE) to oversee the importation of the machines.  “Without prejudice to the foregoing, the applicant avers that the delay, if any, in the processing of the exemption of tax and clearance of the goods from the warehouse has not been the making of the applicant,” Munzala said, arguing that the hospital was not invited to give its side of the story.   newsdesk@standardmedia.co.ke   Cord leaders attend Moses Weatangula's presidential bid  Villagers in Kakamega County left in shock as woman kills her husband over a plate of githeri  Fear grips residents of Khwisero, Kakamega following a spate of bizarre killings By Standard Reporter | 1 hour ago By  Dennis Kabaara | 4 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 11 hours ago By Sara Okuoro | 12 hours ago