A shell of the vehicle belonging to three men lynched in Kilifi on July 7, 2021. [File, Standard]  Police have arrested a middle-aged man accused of lynching three people in Kilifi on July 7.  Robert Mganga was arrested at his rented house in Fedha, Nairobi on Friday evening.  Police say the suspect fled Kilifi after taking part in the lynching of three men, who had been mistaken for kidnappers.  Mganga becomes the sixteenth person to be arrested in connection with the killings.  Moving on: Kianjakoma and Kajiado families’ pain  All eyes on Kilifi Governor Kingi over new political outfit  Former Kilifi MCA charged with murder of man and his son   Amason Kingi ODM ouster and talk of Coast party splits Raila allies The deceased – Sidik Anwarali Sumra, Rahil Mohamed Kasmani and James Kazungu – were killed by a mob at Junju B Village over a suspected land dispute.  Sumra, a prominent investor and well-known dairy farmer in the region, was the brother of former Embakasi South MP Irshad Sumra.  He was killed alongside his driver Kasmani and Kazungu, a local agent.  Police said investigations indicated that local leaders incited residents against non-locals, leading to the trio’s killing.  According to eyewitnesses, Kazungu pleaded with the attackers, but the assailants heard none of his pleas.  The trio’s bodies, which had deep cuts in the heads, were dragged on the ground for a distance. They’d later be left by the roadside near Junju Secondary School.  In July, the Inspector-General of Police Hillary Mutyambai said the three had gone to inspect a parcel of land before they were attacked by hired goons.  “Our investigations show the trio were attacked and killed with sharp and blunt objects, as they surveyed a parcel of land they wanted to buy,” he said.  In July, 13 suspects, including an ex-MCA, were arraigned in connection with the killings.   Coast leaders condemn killing of businessman Jacob Juma and demand arrest of those behind it  Curse of Grey hair in Kilifi County  Leo Nyanjani: Swala la Elimu katika kaunti la Kilifi 11th April 2016 By Mireri Junior | 1 hour ago By Kamore Maina | 4 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 5 hours ago By Willis Oketch | 7 hours ago