Deputy President addressing congregants at a church service. [File, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto has asked church leaders not to send way politicians who attend church services.  Speaking during a thanksgiving service at AIPCA, St. Lorent Angaine Church, Buuri Constituency in Meru County Ruto advised church leaders to preach salvation to those who come to church.  Ruto’s remarks come a fortnight after the leadership of the Catholic and ACK churches barred political leaders from addressing the church from the pulpit.  The DP said some leaders, whom he did not mention, had now started attending church services.  Anne Waiguru might have ditched Jubilee, but she’s only for rent   William Ruto's economic model will promote poverty, Musalia Mudavadi cautions  Why social media is a politician's best friend  Day Moi sat in church until night and never spoke a word “If it was not for me teaching them to go to church, how would those who don’t come to church start coming?” he said.  “Now that they are here, preach salvation to them, don’t chase them away, just preach to them so that we all get saved and go to heaven,” the second in command added.  Speaking at the church grounds, Ruto also said some (politicians) come to church for political competition but they might be saved in the same church.  “God has blessed me abundantly for going to church. They have seen good things happen to me,” he added.  Last week, the Deputy President changed his tactics in playing politics in the church, despite the move to bar politicians from speaking at official church services and events.  While addressing the congregants in Githunguri, he made no political utterances but took to the pulpit to announce his charity work.  “We have been asked to avoid politicking in church and that is why I am not going to make any political pronouncements while standing on a church pulpit,” Ruto said.   "Mimi niko ready, any moment," Ruto says he is ready to reconcile with Uhuru without any conditions  CS Matiang'i hits again as Deputy President William Ruto fights back | PRESS REVIEW  2 Anglican Church of Kenya Bishops call on the leaders to bridge the gap between the rich & the poor By Brian Otieno | 1 hour ago By John Shilitsa and Harold Odhiambo | 3 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 4 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 5 hours ago