ODM leader Raila Odinga addresses residents of Githurai, Kiambu County. [David Njaaga, Standard]  ODM leader Raila Odinga has urged the National Government to look into the current curriculum, saying there is a disconnect between graduates and the job market.  Raila, who was meeting the Buy Kenya-Build Kenya team in Nairobi this morning opined that monies are going to waste instead of helping jobless youth, which in turn will lead to economic development.  “The curriculum really needs to be looked at by the government and approved, because you waste money that can better be deployed to help the unemployed,” the ODM chief said.  He avers that if youth, who make up about 75 per cent of the population, are properly empowered, they will become a source of wealth creation.  Parties in hunt for diaspora votes in 6 more countries  Raila to discuss Mount Kenya’s economy with business forum  Ruto, Raila and the economy   Professional politicians creating democratic shortage “The problem we have is the mismatch between skills and demand in the market. We have so many young people running around with academic papers,” he said.  Raila is on a culmination of a three-day tour of Central region.  He is expected to meet key business leaders of the Mt Kenya Economic Forum Block today, with a cache of promises ahead of the 2022 General Election.  The Mt Kenya Foundation (MKF) brings together a group of wealthy Central Kenya businessmen, who have in the past influenced elections in successive regimes. The meeting follows a decision by the populous region to back the former premier.  Raila enjoyed a triumphant visit to the Mt Kenya region at the weekend, seemingly culminating in a tactical backing by four Mt Kenya governors - Ndiritu Muriithi (Laikipia), Nakuru’s Lee Kinyanjui, James Nyoro (Kiambu) and Central Kenya Economic Bloc chairman Francis Kimemia (Nyandarua).  After a meeting with the four governors at a Nanyuki hotel, he left for Nairobi where he made stopovers at Narumoru, Chaka, Karatina, Sagana, Kenol and several others on Thika superhighway terminating at Githurai on the border of Kiambu and Nairobi yesterday.  The former prime minister is among other presidential hopefuls courting Mt Kenya in recent weeks, in hopes of securing the region’s vote next year.       Pulpit Politics: ODM leader Raila Odinga welcomes move to ban politicians speaking in church  Raila Odinga is set to begin a 2-day in Western Kenya, he is to have consultative meetings  Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens By Grace Ng'ang'a | 16 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 16 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 1 day ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 1 day ago