The teacher says he was ambushed by the Form Four students. [Courtesy]  A mathematics teacher at St John's Secondary School, Sikinwa in Saboti, is nursing head and neck injuries after three students attacked him.  Nicholas Bett says he was ambushed by the Form Four students on Saturday night as he went to an outside latrine.  The students emerged from a maize plantation near the teacher's home a few metres away from the school and attacked him with a blunt object.  According to Bett, two of the students waylaid him and told him that he would face the music for being a nuisance to them.  Ruto has no moral authority to lecture Raila on graft – Caleb Amisi  Why victims of SLDF attacks still struggle to move on 13 years later  State gives Trans Nzoia Sh117m to fight virus  Local Jubilee leaders back Pukose as Committee ouster debate rages The third student emerged from the shadows and hit him hard with the object.  Although the students were in civilian clothes, Bett said he was able to identify them. He now says he fears for his life.  The incident was reported at Gitwamba Police Station.   The incident was reported at Gitwamba Police Station. [Courtesy]  Elsewhere, a family from Isiolo is calling on the Government to help trace their son, a policeman, who was allegedly abducted on Thika highway on Monday night.  Sergent Osman Omari Godana, 38, was allegedly pulled out of a vehicle he was driving at around 9pm near Thika town.  The policeman attached to Laisamis Police Station in Marsabit County was on way to Nairobi with four people on board, when they were intercepted near Blue Post Hotel. He was the only one ordered out and bundled in a waiting vehicle along Nyeri-Nairobi highway  Abdi Kara, who was in the vehicle driven by the abducted policeman said gun-totting persons donning bulletproof jackets snatched the policeman and bundled him into their vehicle leaving the occupants unharmed but stranded.  The father, Omari Godana Dida recounted the pain the family was going through since the son disappeared.  "They said they have been looking for him and the mission was now accomplished," said Godana.  The policeman was formerly attached to GSU before he was moved to Laisamis police.  -Additional reporting by Boniface Gikandi   Youth of western region meet in Trans Nzoia, the event is being hosted by Saboti MP Caleb Amisi  Trans-Nzoia County Referral Hospital inahitaji Kshs. 2 Bilioni  Young MPs want to be included in building bridges initiative, claim they have been sidelined By Bakari Ang'ela and Osinde Obare | 9 hours ago By Benard Lusigi | 10 hours ago By Alexander Chagema | 12 hours ago By Brian Kisanji | 1 day ago