Political activist and Kilifi North MP aspirant Ruth Bendera Charo at the Pamoja African Alliance (PAA) offices in Kilifi town during a recruitment exercise. [Nehemiah Okwembah, Standard].  A political party associated with Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi has started recruiting members at the Coast.  Pamoja African Alliance (PAA) could win over grassroots leaders, especially from ODM who are close to the governor.  Already, members of ODM from the Kilifi County Assembly and several aspirants eyeing elective posts have backed PAA.    More intellectuals from Coast eye political seats  Man accused of killing three men in Kilifi arrested  Governor Kingi starts members recruitment drive for new party  All eyes on Kilifi Governor Kingi over new political outfit The outfit shot up from the blues in the past few weeks after ODM leader Raila Odinga announced the removal of Kingi as Kilifi ODM chairman. He was replaced with Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire.  The recruitment drive has gained momentum, with many residents turning up in large numbers to register.  Kilifi County Assembly Majority Leader Adamson Mwathethe, who recently criticised Kingi over his political journey, bowed to pressure and told residents that he will stand with Kingi and join the new party.  “We are in ODM at the moment but when the time comes, I will follow what my people say and we will work together with Governor Kingi,” he said.  Political activist and aspirant for the Kilifi North parliamentary seat Ruth Bendera Charo led her supporters in registering as members of PAA at the party’s Kilifi office on Thursday.   “This is our party and I am really proud of our governor for showing us the way. We will no longer be political squatters,” she said and called on all political leaders to join the outfit.  At the same time, goons said to be ODM supporters invaded the PAA offices in Malindi town on Friday evening and locked up the offices.  A statement from the PAA secretariat condemned the incident and called for political sobriety among leaders.  “The party has learnt with shock and dismay the defacing of its office in Malindi town...It must be known that PAA is a party founded on peace, democracy, and the rule of law and shall not condone such hooliganism,” read the statement sent to newsrooms.   Coast leaders condemn killing of businessman Jacob Juma and demand arrest of those behind it  Curse of Grey hair in Kilifi County  Leo Nyanjani: Swala la Elimu katika kaunti la Kilifi 11th April 2016 By Jacob Ngetich  | 6 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 6 hours ago By John Shilitsa | 6 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi | 6 hours ago