The owner of the building that collapsed in Mamboleo in Kisumu killing three people and injuring seven others has surrendered himself to the police.  James Samo was detained briefly at Kondele Police Station before being released on a Sh40,000 police cash bail.  The contractor of the building who had been detained by the police was also released on Sh30,000 cash bail.  The development came as authorities continued with investigations into the incident and have planned to charge the two on Friday at Winam Law Courts.    Three bodies retrieved from collapsed Kisumu building  Surveyors raise alarm over substandard buildings in Nairobi  Building owners defied demolition order, says official   One dead, several trapped as five-storey building collapses in Gachie A senior police officer privy to the investigations confided to The Standard that investigations were yet to be completed.  A police source, who is not authorised to speak on record, confirmed to The Standard that they were probing a number of issues including approvals as well as possible violations by the suspects.  “Investigations are still on after which charges will be preferred against the suspects,” said the police source.  The developments came as authorities completed their recovery efforts as indications of other bodies still lying in the debris of the building were minimal.  Police identified the victims of the tragedy as Victor Odhiambo, Florence Odhiambo and Beatrice Owuor.  A number of survivors are still nursing wounds.  Jared Odhiambo who also escaped death by a whisker claimed that they were about 60 workers at the site but most of them were on lunch break.  The collapse comes barely a year after another three-storey building collapsed in the same area and left several people with injuries.  Area MCA Roy Samo, who was among those helping with rescue efforts, claimed the contractor could have flouted some regulations.   Six storey building collapses in Nyali area of Mombasa  Death toll in Huruma set to rise with possible recovery of more bodies buried under the rubble  President Uhuru leads the country in burning Ivory as a sign towards the fight against poaching By James Omoro | 2 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 23 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 1 day ago By James Omoro | 1 day ago