Mumias Sugar Company receiver-manager Ponangipalli Venkata Ramana Rao risks imprisonment for six months or being fined Sh500,000 for ignoring Senate summonses. Rao has failed to honour at least three summonses by the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries over the leasing of the sugar firm.  He is expected to appear before the committee today, failure to which the Senate team will recommend his arrest and prosecution. “You failed to honour the invitations to appear before the committee on August 6 and 20, and September 20 this year. The Senate has powers to summon any individual to appear before it to give evidence or information,” read a letter from the Senate.  Before today’s meeting, Rao is supposed to have furnished the committee with the resolutions agreed upon over the leasing process of the miller and any court order barring him from implementing the resolutions.  But Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has faulted the Senate for summoning the receiver-manager. “Mumias sugar is a private company and now under receivership. The Senators have fixed interests in the issues surrounding Mumias Sugar Company,” said Oparanya.  Why reviving debt-ridden Uchumi and Mumias Sugar remains a tall order  Why industry affiliated Saccos fail to stand after companies go under  New twist in Mumias miller’s lease as creditors disown deal  Mumias receiver manager calls for fresh leasing bids   He told the senators to familiarise themselves with the Insolvency Act of companies and stop blocking the leasing of the sugar factory. “This is happening at the expense of cane farmers languishing in poverty,” said Oparanya.  In a report by the receiver-manager dated June 4, Rao said Mumias Sugar had an asset base of Sh15.7 billion and Sh30.1 billion liabilities. The net assets/owners’ equity stood at negative Sh14.4 billion.   Dr. Mukhisa Kituyi's take on the war between the Executive vs Judiciary & the troubled Mumias  Leasing process to be taken to salvage the troubled Mumias Sugar company  Bitter Sugar Wars: Local leaders trade accusations as the row over Mumias Sugar Company continues By Robert Amalemba | 14 minutes ago By Nathan Ochunge | 2 days ago By Robert Amalemba | 2 days ago By Brian Okoth | 3 days ago