Former Vice Chief of General Staff of the Kenya Defence Forces Lt Gen (Rtd) Nick Leshan has been eulogised as a steadfast military officer who served the country diligently.  Mourners heard how at one point the former Kenya Air Force commander flew to Nakuru ready to bomb the town in the event Uganda dictator Idi Amin invaded Kenya.  It was also Leshan who was bestowed the responsibility of flying the body of first president, Jomo Kenyatta, when he died in Mombasa on August 22, 1978.  Former Chief of Defence Staff Lt Gen (Rtd) Julius Karangi described him as an officer who valued fairness and strictness.  Lt.General Nick Leshan takes the final bow “In April 1976 when Iddi Amin wanted to invade Kenya in order to expand his territory of rule, orders came from above that we had to bomb Nakuru in case Amin drives into the country. Leshan and I flew to Nakuru and waited for further orders until 3pm. When the orders finally came, we were told to fly back to Moi Airbase in Nairobi,” said Karangi during a memorial service at the Ridgeways Baptist Church.    Karangi, who succeeded Leshan as the Kenya Air Force commander when he (Leshan) was promoted, described his predecessor as a good storyteller.  The first commander of Air Force Bedan Gichuru, who is also the patron of Retired Officers Association, described Leshan as one of the best military pilots.  Leshan died at the Aga Khan Hospital in Nairobi after being admitted on August 18.  His widow, Salome Naanyu, recounted how she met Leshan when she was just 19 and they got married in a tradition ceremony in 1969 and later had a church wedding in 1973.  She remembered when Leshan was abducted in 1982 during the attempt to overthrow the government of former President Moi.  “There are so many achievements that you made that I remember. I will never forget my pride of watching you land safely the first Air Force planes flown by Kenyan military pilots from Canada to Kenya,” she said.  President Uhuru Kenyatta, in a message read by Vice Chief of KDF Francis Ogolla, described Leshan as a distinguished loyal officer over his 35 years of service.  Uhuru added that Leshan had mentored many young people to join aviation. Ogolla, in his eulogy, recounted how in 1998 when he wrote a resignation letter and handed it to Leshan. But for three hours, the Vice Chief of Staff convinced him not to resign as he had the potential to become the force commander. Leshan’s prediction came to pass 20 years later.  Chief of the Defence Forces Robert Kibochi, in a speech read on his behalf by the Army Commander Walter Raria, described the deceased as a patriot who was loyal in his service to the country.  He leaves behind four children Sheila Pereruan Griffin, Joy Namunyak Wanje, Kuntai Leshan and Purko Leshan.  He will be buried today at his Nangiri home in Narok County.   By Jacob Ng'etich | 2 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 3 hours ago By Pkemoi Ng’enoh | 3 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur and Kamore Maina | 3 hours ago