The National Assembly's Public Accounts Committee wants the contractor who put up the modern law court in Siaya to refund the Judiciary Sh3.2 million.  According to the committee, the contractor used water from the court's main connection during the construction instead of purchasing it.  The new court that is already in use was constructed at Sh340 million.  About 40 employees are operating from the ground and first floors of the building that are fully complete.  The committee members led by Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo, who were in Siaya to follow up on the audit queries and check the status of the court, said the contractor has to refund Sh3.2 million.  Couple among the dead in collapsed building as death toll rises to three  To stop collapse of buildings, give NCA teeth to bite  Leaning Kinoo building safely brought down   Why Kinoo building is crumbling "We want to ensure that the public funds are not lost. That money must be refunded to the Judiciary, and the head office must follow up," said MP Amollo.  Earlier, the team held an inspection meeting with the resident Judge Roseline Aburili and officials from the Treasury and Chief Registrar of Judiciary.  The new building has eight courtrooms, nine chambers, prisons, probation, the attorney general and Director of Public Prosecutions offices.  The building will have its borehole to address the persistent shortage of water and standby generators.  The High Court in Siaya covers Bondo and Ukwala magistrate courts.  MP Amollo noted that the contractor did a good job, and the court is ready for official commission.  "In our assessment, this court is an example of prudent use of funds. Comparatively, we have visited many courts for the past month, and Siaya court is one of those well done. The project is a success because the court users committee, judges and magistrates put an eye on the project," said the MP.  The project was funded by World Bank through the National Government.     National Construction Authority holds meeting to set new building rules  Monday Night Interview with chairman of Architectural Association of Kenya, Engineer Evans Goro  The Huruma building collapse has been attributed to weak structures and bad weather By Stanley Ongwae | 8 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 1 day ago By James Omoro | 1 day ago By Harold Odhiambo | 1 day ago