CoG chair Martin Wambora. [David Gichuru, Standard]  Close to seven metric tons of food have been distributed to various counties affected by drought.  Council of Governors (CoG) chairman Martin Wambora said at least 751,492 residents of the affected counties have also been provided with water.   Wambora, who is also the governor of Embu County, said CoG is working with development partners to lessen the suffering of those affected through the provision of relief supplies and review of drought intervention measures.  "We are distributing food and non-food items targeting 956,493 people and availing nutritional commodities at all health facilities. We are also repairing and servicing strategic boreholes, facilitating mass vaccination of livestock and supporting peacebuilding and conflict resolution to enable warring communities to reach an amicable resource sharing agreements and avert conflicts,’’ said Wambora.  Treasury to release Sh2b to help drought victims  Uhuru says drought a national disaster, orders ministries to take swift action and help the needy  President Uhuru declares drought a national disaster  State should declare a state of emergency on drought Livestock carcass in drought-stricken Marsabit County. [Courtesy]  The governor called on the private sector, development partners and civil society organisations to support their efforts in addressing the crisis.  At the same time, Wambora called on the National Treasury to immediately release funds to counties to enable them support the affected residents.  Meanwhile, Wambora said CoG and the ministry of Health will soon announce the new dates for the seventh devolution conference. The conference had been planned for Makueni County between August 23-26 but was postponed indefinitely due to increasing Covid-19 infections.  "We may have the conference towards the end of October," he said.     Governor Martin Wambora locked horns with members of the Senate health committee over Covid funds  Horn of Africa region hit by one of its worst droughts in decades, affecting 20 million people  Wanawake Embu wamkashifu gavana Wambora kwa kumdhalimu mbunge Cecily Mbarire By Allan Mungai | 4 hours ago By Daniel Wesangula  | 4 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi and James Munyeki | 4 hours ago By Judah Ben Hur | 11 hours ago