William Ruto spoke after a church service at Mbiriri Full Gospel Churches of Kenya, in Kieni, Nyeri County. [Screen Grab: William Ruto Twitter]  Deputy President William Ruto has again blasted the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI), saying the Bill obstructed the implementation of the Big Four Agenda.  Big Four Agenda is President Uhuru Kenyatta's second term development blueprint, which comprises: Food Security, Affordable Housing; Manufacturing and Universal Health Coverage.  Speaking after a church service at Mbiriri Full Gospel Churches of Kenya, in Kieni, Nyeri County, the DP Ruto said that their government (President Uhuru and him) wasted four years of their second term as a result of the handshake.  “I stood with the President in 2013 when he had no one to stand by him. Then they brought BBI and neglected the Big Four Agenda. We have wasted four years. But God stopped the reggae on our behalf,” Ruto said.  State officials out to sabotage my presidential bid, says Ruto   Matiang’i report delivered a big blow to the ‘hustler’ narrative  DP Ruto: No retreat, no surrender  Bunge Chronicles: Waheshimiwa bothered chicken more precious than all of them   Further, Ruto accused his political rivals of mobilising the youth to cause chaos and barricade roads in an effort to bar him from reaching the people.  “They have tried to close the roads and mobilize youth to chaos. We are determined to change the destiny and fortunes of ordinary citizens and our plans will not be stopped,” he added.  This was after an outdoor church service he was supposed to attend was cancelled, forcing him and his political allies to attend another service in a small iron-sheet walled church, where he donated Sh1 million for its construction.  “Those barring us from attending a church service will be punished by God. Let us respect the church and word of God while politicking,” he noted.  Ruto reiterated that he was out to fight for ordinary Kenyans’ rights and that nothing would stop him.  “We cannot speak about leaders and more political seats until the ordinary Kenyan is catered for. We plan to ensure ordinary citizens climb the economic ladder. There is no retreat, no surrender, we are marching forward,” he added.  This comes in the wake of President Uhuru Kenyatta asking his Deputy to resign if he was not in agreement with what the government is doing and take his agenda to the people.   CS Matiang'i hits again as Deputy President William Ruto fights back | PRESS REVIEW  Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana  DP William Ruto has been stopped from travelling to Uganda where he was headed for a private visit By Nderitu Gichure | 1 hour ago By Moses Nyamori | 1 hour ago By Boniface Gikandi  | 6 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 10 hours ago