World Bank leaders reportedly put “undue pressure” on staff to boost China’s ranking. [Courtesy]  Economists at investment funds expressed dismay on Friday at revelations that World Bank leaders put “undue pressure” on staff to boost China’s ranking in its influential “Doing Business 2018” report, and the series’ subsequent cancellation.  They said the World Bank’s discontinuation of the “Doing Business” reports, which rate countries according to how easy it is to do business in them, could make it harder for investors to assess where to put their money.  “The more I think about this, the worse it looks,” Tim Ash at BlueBay Asset Management said in emailed comments.  “Any quantitative model of country risk has built this into ratings. Money and investments are allocated on the back of this series.”  How China has silenced roar of Kenyan factories  New maritime law could inflame China, Asian nations South China Sea tiff   Kenya at risk of defaulting on loans, warns Central Bank boss  As West ponders aid for Afghanistan, China and Pakistan provide relief An investigation by law firm WilmerHale at the request of the World Bank’s ethics committee found World Bank chiefs including Kristalina Georgieva, now head of the International Monetary Fund had applied pressure to boost China’s scores.  At the time, the Washington-based multilateral lender was seeking China’s support for a big capital increase. Georgieva said she disagreed “fundamentally with the findings and interpretations” of the report, which was released on Thursday and had briefed the IMF’s executive board.  Economists said such reports - by the World Bank and others - were useful but had long been vulnerable to manipulation. They said some governments, especially in poorer emerging market countries who want to demonstrate progress to voters, could become obsessed with their position in the reports, which assess everything from ease of paying taxes to legal rights.  Charles Robertson, the chief economist at Renaissance Capital, said ease of doing business scores had been losing credibility for years. Some countries employ investment firms, including his own, and even former government leaders to advise them on how to improve their rankings.   Water Boost: World bank gives a grant of Ksh 32 million to boost water supply to Murang'a residents  President Uhuru commissions 30 Armoured Police Cars to the GSU  Licha ya Kenya kuwa na bahari, Kenya huagiza samaki kutoka Uchina By Peter Theuri | 1 day ago By Macharia Kamau | 1 day ago By XN Iraki | 1 day ago By Dominic Omondi | 1 day ago