Parking hours in CBD and areas around shopping centres or houses will run from 8am to 8pm. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  Motorists will soon start paying for parking fees hourly if a proposed policy by City Hall is implemented.  They will be charged between Sh75 and Sh100 per hour for parking within the Nairobi Central Business District (CBD). The policy seeks to do away with the Sh200 flat-rate parking fee currently charged by the county government.  This is part of measures aimed at increasing revenue collection and restoring order in parking. The policy was drafted by the county Transport department.    Resident’s Association opposes plan to charge parking in estates  Nairobi county to auction 193 unclaimed motorbikes  Nairobi traffic jams may ease on October 15, says KeNHA boss  Sakaja to battle NMS in senate over estate parking fees Those seeking to park on off-street spaces will have to part with Sh100 hourly in a move aimed at easing the traffic gridlock, while motorists opting for the on-street parking slots will have to pay Sh90 every hour.  Notably, parking slots south of Kenyatta Avenue and west of Moi Avenue areas were listed as the most preferred by motorists.  Those wishing to pay a Sh75 hourly fee will park in the other areas apart from the two listed prime sections.  Parking hubs outside the CBD will attract a charge of Sh50 per hour and Sh40 per hour.  “The move is aimed at fully regulating all parking in the city centre where there is a high level of competition for spaces,” states the policy document.  The draft policy also seeks to scrap the issuance of parking season tickets in the CBD and instead introduce them outside the CBD at Sh6,000 per month.  Parking in mixed areas with high traffic volumes will also be regulated. “In these areas, regulation is needed to guarantee urban quality and to provide chances of sustainable means of transport,” adds the policy.  City Hall aims to increase revenue collection and restore order in parking. [Courtesy]  In the regulated areas, the price will reflect the demand. The areas include Upper Hill, Community, Westlands, Yaya Centre, Eastleigh, Karen, Gigiri, Ngara, and Hurlingham. The document reads: “In the regulated areas, parking on public spaces has a price. The price is higher, the longer the parking duration.”  Notably, parking hours in the CBD and areas around shopping centres or houses will run from 8am to 8pm whereas all other regulated areas will have to contend with the 8am to 6pm time period.   The policy also seeks to introduce charging points for electric vehicles and designation of loading and unloading bays close to commercial places.  “Designate at least two per cent of all parking spaces for the mobility impaired and ensure that such bays are of the appropriate size and location,” the policy reads.  City Hall plans to reduce the number of taxis parked in the CBD by providing taxi ranks. The county shall also provide loading and unloading zones, parking spaces for people with disabilities, as well as ‘official’ vehicles.  In order to ensure enforcement, the Anne Kananu-led administration seeks to strengthen the legal framework and introduce technology to enable enforcement officers identify illegally parked vehicles or those that are non-compliant with the yet to be introduced policies.    KENHA urges Kenyans plying the Nairobi-Nakuru highway to use alternative routes  Nairobi residents decry over Central Business District mugging, they want the police to intervene  Nguvu za KANU: Tawi la Nairobi la Kanu lakutana kujadili mikakati watakayotumia 2022 By Patrick Vidija | 23 hours ago By Saada Hassan | 1 day ago By James Wanzala | 2 days ago By Kamau Muthoni | 2 days ago