John Nkengasong, Africa's Director of the CDC, speaks at the AU Headquarters in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. [Reuters]  The African Union's (AU) top health official called Britain's lack of recognition for coronavirus vaccines administered in Africa regrettable, saying on Thursday it sends a confusing public health message.  England announced last week that it would expand the list of countries from which it recognises vaccines, adding 17 others beyond the initial list of the United States and Europe. None of those countries are in Africa.  The British government sets coronavirus policy for England, while Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are in charge of their own rules.  "We regret that the UK would take this position. We are calling on them to review this because it doesn't speak to the spirit of true solidarity and cooperation," said Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention director John Nkengasong.  State boosts local vehicle assembler with military deal  From genocide hero to convict: The tumultuous life of ‘Hotel Rwanda’ legend  'I need three months to scrutinise ICC evidence'  Covid-19: 37 succumb as 394 people test positive in last 24 hours "If ... you send us vaccines and we use those vaccines and you say you don't recognise people that have been immunised with those vaccines... it sends a very challenging message for us," he said.  The British High Commission in Kenya said in a joint statement with the Kenyan Health Ministry on Tuesday that it takes time to set up a system to recognise vaccine certificates for international travel.  Richard Mihigo, a World Health Organization official, echoed this, saying the issue is fundamentally about certificates.  "We need to see how some of these certificates that are generated could be mutually recognised by different countries," Mihigo, coordinator for the WHO's Immunization and Vaccines Development Programme Africa, told a news conference on Thursday.  However, Africa's vaccination rate is still very low. Just 4% of Africans have been vaccinated and much of the continent remains in the midst of a third wave, Nkengasong said.  Monthly vaccine shipments to the continent would have to jump seven-fold to reach a United Nations goal of 70% immunisation of the population by September 2022, WHO Africa said in a separate statement.    ODM’s attempt to oust Chebukati from IEBC elicits mixed reactions | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  Ministry of Health receives 180,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine as a donation from Gov't of Greece  HEALTH WATCH: How Covid-19 misinformation worldwide has created panic by misleading masses By Too Jared | 13 hours ago By Reuters | 1 day ago By Winfrey Owino | 1 day ago By Reuters | 2 days ago