The alleged photographic evidence of the heroin the DCI has posted online. [Twitter]  A nurse stationed at Mbagathi hospital, Nairobi, has been arrested with 60 pellets of heroin, the DCI says.  Beatrice Awour, who the DCI  suspects to be a member of a drug-trafficking ring was arrested in Nairobi’s Kayole neighbourhood.  Awuor, Caroline Adongo Mijibi and Risper Auma Ochieng were arrested on Tuesday night with the pellets containing heroin, the DCI says in a Twitter post.  According to the directorate, Beatrice Awour, 42,  and who is the prime suspect is believed to have been preparing to swallow 60 pellets of the highly addictive drug for shipment, to an unknown destination.  Kisumu youth’s painful fight to get out of heroin addiction  Mbagathi: Come for second Covid-19 jab... Sorry, we have none  Accused cop in Yassin Moyo case lied about Covid-19 test  Mbagathi Hospital management denies claims that masks being recycled are from the facility According to the post Transnational organised crime detectives acting on information received via their hotline, stormed her house in Nasra area in Kayole and pounced on her.  “The detectives ransacked her house and recovered her passport, together with two others suspected to be her accomplices. Upon further scrutiny, the sleuths managed to identify one of the passports as that of a drug trafficker, who has an ongoing case in court,” the DCI said.  The DCI said they also recovered a job identification card bearing the names of the mastermind Beatrice Awuor Odhiambo, which identified her as a nurse at Mbagathi hospital.  “A digital weighing scale believed to be used in weighing the drug made from the seed pod of opium poppy plants was also recovered,” the DCI said.  They said the scene was documented by crime scene personnel based at DCI-Kayole and the pellets handed over to anti-narcotics experts based at DCI headquarters, for forensic analysis.   Morning Express: The Newsroom 21/10/2015  Newroom Analysis of President Uhuru Kenyatta's Speech at the 2015 Mashujaa Day Celebrations  Newsroom Analysis of the 2015 Mashujaa Day Celebrations By Betty Njeru | 41 minutes ago By Julius Chepkwony | 2 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 2 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 5 hours ago