Deputy President William Ruto when he met with Kisii grassroots leaders from Nairobi County at the Karen Residence.[Courtesy]  Deputy President William Ruto says the violence in Laikipia is not good for the country urging Inspector General Hilary Mutyambai to swiftly ensure order is restored in the region.  Speaking at his Nairobi Karen home where he met several political leaders, Ruto said a time has come for Mr Mutyambai to shun political assignments and discharge his law enforcement duties impartially and with diligence.    Ruto said the violence in Laikipia that has left several people dead and others displaced has exposed serious lapses in the country’s security service.  “ [The} Police [Service] should be run impartially; the Inspector-General should avoid the politicisation of security work in Kenya,” he said.  DP Ruto allies respond to Tuju’s hard-hitting statement  Programme to help ailing police officers launched  DP Ruto: I own most of the property listed by CS Matiang’i, but there is more  Inside DP William Ruto’s security detail Ruto said as the country heads to next year’s general election, the police should strive to inspire confidence in Kenyans that they will be served equally, their political affiliations notwithstanding.   He asked Mutyambai to demonstrate to Kenyans that he runs an independent office that is not swayed by politics.  His sentiments come after Tiaty MP William Kamket and former Laikipia North MP Mathew Lempkurel were arrested over suspected links to the attacks.  While Lempkurel was arrested at his home in Kajiado, Kakmet was arrested in Baringo and taken to Nakuru Law Court.   Ruto said opposition leaders do not have the moral ground to criticise the government since they are the ones who sabotaged its development agenda.   He reiterated that the Jubilee administration had a clear agenda under the Big Four development agenda that was replaced with the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) by the opposition.   Ruto maintained the opposition brigade owes Kenyans an apology for derailing the government’s agenda.    His sentiments were echoed by Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika who said Kenyans should shun tribal groupings and instead embrace national political parties with a clear agenda for them.   "We should not have different political parties based on tribes and regions,” she said.    Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa said those in the Hustler Nation formation were coming together, irrespective of their tribes and region, to work towards the realisation of the revolutionary bottom-up economic model.   Dagoreti North MP South John Kiarie said Nairobi County residents will continue supporting Ruto to ensure he gets the chance to implement the bottom-up economic model.    "We are leaders of sound mind when we decided to support Ruto, we shall rally all Nairobians to ensure that they support the hustler nation,” he said.   Embakasi West MP Peter Theuri said Ruto is the only candidate that has offered Kenyans a solid development agenda that seeks to transform their lives.     DP William Ruto forgives those who allegedly fixed him in ICC  DP William Ruto visits the cereals depot in Bungoma county  DP William Ruto urges Kenyans to embrace the new Jubilee Party By Jacob Ng'etich | 2 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 3 hours ago By Pkemoi Ng’enoh | 3 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur and Kamore Maina | 3 hours ago