The licence of Ruai Family Hospital has been reinstated after it was revoked last Tuesday evening by the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentist Council (KMPDC) citing irregularities in the Covid-19 vaccination exercise.  The committee chairing the hearing between the health facility and KMPDC found it unsuitable to administer the Covid-19 vaccines to Kenyans after findings revealed that two people, a hospital manager and a nurse, handled the vaccines without due procedure.  KMPDC CEO Daniel Yumbya, noted that “the alleged business manager Carolyne Kinyanjui is not a healthcare worker nor is she authorised under law to handle Covid-19 vaccines."  There was also no documentation to prove that nurse Ruth Mutitika was authorised to issue the vaccines to Carolyne Kinyanjui and Yumbya concluded that "Ruth did not sign for the vaccines in line with the hospital's protocols.”    Medics’ alarm over two towns  Medics’ alarm over two towns Mutitika also had no authority from the hospital management to issue vaccines which the hospital had reported missing at the police station under the OB number 2629/29/8/2021 on August 29 and “the action jeopardises the quality and efficacy of vaccines thus endangering public safety."  On its part, Ruai Family Hospital issued a statement on Tuesday evening arguing that its licence was revoked and the facility closed before the actual hearing.  “We have received a letter from the KMPDC instructing us of closure, we find this a bit unsettling that such a drastic action can be taken,” the statement reads in part, “more so at a time when healthcare systems are stretched.”  Ruai Family Hospital CEO Maxwell Okoth, said the hospital was not involved in diverting vaccines and culprits should carry their own cross and that the institution will not stop "offering care for now," adding that the quality of Covid-19 vaccines should not be doubted as they were supplied by government and offered free of charge.  “We have been proactive in the management of Covid-19,” Dr Okoth said, adding that it was sad and wrong for the hospital to be punished for the action of an individual done under his or her personal capacity.  The council's final ruling said the hospital ceases to be a vaccination centre and is expected to conduct an audit of vaccines received and submit a report to KMPDC in 14 days.   By James Wanzala | 1 day ago By Kamau Muthoni | 1 day ago By Winfrey Owino | 1 day ago By Jael Mboga | 1 day ago