A 33-year-old man on Wednesday hacked his brother to death in Nyeri after the two differed over the ownership of a three-seater sofa set.   According to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) Elias Muriithi killed his 39-year-old elder brother Joseph Maina after he tried to repossess the seat which he reportedly took from his hi mother’s house.  “Acting under the instructions of their mother, the deceased is reported to have gone to the house of his younger brother to repossess the couch,” said DCI.  A quarrel ensued between the two after the deceased was reportedly sent by his mother to go for the couch from his younger brother’s house.  DCI: Senator Mithika Linturi trying to evade rape charges  Man to be arraigned for attacking security guard with toy pistol   Integrity law has failed to subdue politicians but who is to blame?  Husband stabs wife's suspected lover after finding them in bed at dawn Muriithi opposed the move to repossess the seat, and a fight ensued before he attacked his brother using a machete.  After cutting his brother several times, the suspect allegedly smashed his head with a blunt object killing him on the spot.  Realising his brother was no more, Muriithi fled the scene and turned himself to the police at Mathari Police Post to evade the wrath of locals.  Neighbours who had rushed to the scene to separate the two found the deceased body at the scene in a pool of blood.  Officers from Mathari Police Post rushed to the scene only to find the victim lying lifeless in a pool of blood.  Crime Scene detectives processed the scene of the crime and have launched a probe into the killing.  The suspect will be arraigned after the investigations are completed.   Finally Justice for Kwekwe's family after Court sets a date  Police officers convicted of killing 14 year old Kwekwe Mwandaza to know their fate on Monday  Two police men convicted of manslaughter By Kamau Muthoni | 10 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 1 day ago By Jane Mugambi | 2 days ago By Wacuka Kiarie | 2 days ago