Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka has cautioned the Kamba community against falling for the overtures from Deputy President William Ruto.  Speaking at a burial in the outskirts of Mwingi town on Saturday, Kalonzo claimed Ruto was out to hoodwink the community with his “ill-gotten wealth”.  He dismissed Ruto’s bottom-up economy approach, saying it was a handouts-oriented model whose intent was to offer quick fixes.    Jubilee government has failed us; the next one should not  Embrace politicians, Ruto tells the church  Anne Waiguru might have ditched Jubilee, but she’s only for rent   William Ruto's economic model will promote poverty, Musalia Mudavadi cautions Kalonzo said the model would not propel the country to desired economic levels.  "We know his salary, but during his visit to Kitui, he managed to contribute over Sh10 million in one day. Ask yourselves where this money is coming from," he said.  While urging the church to pray for the country, Kalonzo took a further jibe at the DP, saying it was regrettable how certain leaders used public positions to enrich themselves and later use the same proceeds to bribe their way to power.  “There are others who pretend to be very religious, but their lives are in total contradiction to what Christ stood for,” he said.  The One Kenya Alliance (OKA) principal said time was ripe for him to contest for the country’s top seat. He noted that this time around, he would not play second fiddle to anyone.  The Wiper leader noted that he was alive to the fact that he could not win alone. He said he would seek alliances with other leaders to actualise his ambitions.  Ruto has been visiting the Ukambani region, where he urged the community to back his presidential bid in 2022.  On Friday, the DP met with women groups at Katheka market and later addressed rallies in Kitui and Migwani.   Musalia Mudavadi is expected in Meru county in his heightened political activities to woo the region  "Mimi niko ready, any moment," Ruto says he is ready to reconcile with Uhuru without any conditions  CS Matiang'i hits again as Deputy President William Ruto fights back | PRESS REVIEW By Wainaina Ndung'u | 3 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 3 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 3 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 7 hours ago