ODM leader Raila Odinga (former Kanu secretary seneral)  ODM leader Raila Odinga stressed the need for political parties to cooperate if Kenya was to strengthen its democracy.  Raila, while congratulating Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi for receiving the National Delegates Congress endorsement to vie for the presidency in 2022, said multi-partyism should be celebrated and strengthened.  He gave the anecdote of Kanu’s formation, giving a year-by-year account of key events that made Kanu what it is today, including the party’s merger with Kadu.  He said Kanu’s history was also Kenya’s history. The two were interwoven and Kanu, like Kenya, was good and bad.  No turning back as Gideon Moi sets off on 2022 journey  Opposition leaders now hint at joint presidential ticket  Gideon Moi pledges to proritise graft war, health care and economy  New dawn as Kanu’s cockerel crows again   Yet the subtext of Raila’s anecdote was the need for political parties to work together.  Raila cited Kadu, which was led by, among others, former President Moi and which folded to join Kanu and make the party the behemoth it was at its peak.  The central theme of Raila’s speech was political union and the need to forgive and move beyond the past.  He also referenced his own National Democratic Party (NDP) which joined Kanu in 2002.  “We had a problem when Moi said Uhuru Tosha and Kalonzo and I left and formed LDP which with NAK birthed the Rainbow coalition,” he said.  “I have come here to demonstrate that multi-partyism is in our Constitution. That Kenya is a multi-party democracy and this democracy being firm is that parties are strong.”  "In America, when the democrats have a convention, Republicans turn up to show their support.  "The strength of our democracy is the strength of the political parties that we have in our country. There must be tolerance among political parties," he said.  The former prime minister said political competition in Kenya was healthy. “It strengthens our democracy and that is the best way to make our country grow and prosper.”  ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi (former Kanu vice chairman)  "I want to congratulate Gideon Moi for being endorsed as the presidential flag bearer for Kanu in the coming elections. It shows that the people have faith in his leadership.  Kenyan politics cannot be complete without us talking about Kanu. Over the years, we have all been served by Kanu.  The speech that Gideon Moi gave was commendable because it focused on creating solutions for the future. It spoke of the plight of Kenyans, war on graft, education and the poor livelihoods of Kenyans.  As leaders, we are ready to walk together so that we can prioritise the needs of Kenyans to ensure that the nation prospers.  We will continue to hold talks, consultations and negotiations with Kanu because at my party ANC, we have no other goal but to ensure that Kenya prospers. We want an improved economy where breadwinners are able to feed their families and favorable prices of goods for farmers and so forth.  The stand that Kanu has taken in transforming this country is what we want to emulate. We want a Kenya that respects the law which is the constitution and since Kanu has affirmed to abide by this, then I am assured we will be able to walk together with them".  Chris Wamalwa (on behalf of Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula)  "Gideon has worked well over the years with Moses Wetang’ula. As a young lawyer, he worked for the Moi family and after that went into politics through nomination. He was introduced to politics by the late Moi.  I want to confirm that as Ford-Kenya, we are in solidarity with chama ya baba na mama, Kanu. We will walk with Gideon Moi and Kanu Fresh.  As One Kenya Alliance (OKA), the door is still open for the like-minded people and I have no doubt that it is going to form the next government.  In a game of football, you have many players but you win as a team regardless of who scores. But amongst this team, our scorer seems to be Gideon.  As OKA and Ford Kenya, we are going to walk with Gideon. If you want to move fast, walk alone but if you want to go far work as a team.  I developed a close relationship with Gideon while in Rome when we were both receiving blessings from the Pope. We were the only black people there so I approached him and asked him if he was Gideon and he told me yes.  The Bible says do not fear because the Lord your God is with you. We want to see a prosperous Kenya under your leadership".  Kalonzo Musyoka (former Kanu vice chairman)  "The journey has begun. You, Kanu members, have started on a high. I was elected as Kanu’s organising secretary in 1989, and served confidently, with the late former President Daniel arap Moi holding my hand. On that day, Mzee Moi was elected as the party’s chairperson… Mzee Moi ensured that there was regional balance in the party in sharing the positions.  Congratulations, Gideon and the Kanu family. We have come a long way… Kibaki once equated bringing down Kanu to hacking a Mugumo tree with a razor blade. Thanks to Gideon and your leadership, Kanu is re-awakened.  We have started walking this journey together in the One Kenya Alliance. OKA is the embodiment of the handshake. Raila Odinga frequently talks about our journey to Canaan, which involves building bridges. OKA, of which Kanu is an integral member, is the proverbial bridge.  Before his death, Mzee Moi sat my brother Gideon and I down, and our talk is still fresh in my mind. Gideon is a real brother. I will always be by your side, even when no one else is. I know he, too, will stick by my side.  In your speech, you highlighted the fight against corruption. The journey has begun. Take control, Gideon".  Kanini Kega (representing Jubilee)  "Congratulations on your endorsement to fly Kanu’s flag in next year’s election. You have what it takes to be the next president of the Republic of Kenya, and not just that, to be the Commander-in-Chief of the Kenya Defence Forces. GM, you are my good friend, and we have walked a long journey together. President Uhuru Kenyatta gave us the blessings to attend this meeting.  If you want to walk fast, walk alone. If you want to walk far, walk with others. GM, you have been nominated. The team you see behind me, together with former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, will be the team that forms the next government. I have no doubt in my mind. I know you are a team leader. With you as the leader, you people will form the next government|".?  Adan Keynan (representing Upya leader and National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani)  Kenya has come from far. Everyone here has tasted the generosity of the late former President Daniel Moi who was among the founders of Kanu. I personally wouldn’t have been able to attend university were it not for Moi.  As the season of mergers and coalitions sets in, we must look at what will benefit our country. Despite having numerous parties, we must ensure we have a cohesive country even as everyone gets an opportunity to compete.  As the pastoralist community, we are ready to join hands and walk together with Kanu leaders to ensure that we also unite Kenyans. If you (Gideon) want the support of the pastorailst community, then we are open for negotiations".  Cyrus Jirongo (YK92)  "Gideon Moi is the epitome of humility. An encounter with Moi does not betray the fact that he is the son of a former president. He is a patriot and a true Kenyan.  As Kanu, you have now held our country together. All these men standing here intend to be Kenya’s next president, but the only person who will hold this team together and make it work – and if we are thinking of having a country after 2022 – it is none other than Gideon Moi.  Vehicles comprise different parts – there is the steering wheel and the engine. A faulty engine would prevent a driver holding the steering wheel from moving forward.  This country, squarely, is in our hands. As Kanu members, you are at the forefront to ensure that we have a country after next year’s elections. Keeping our country together must be the prayer of every Kenyan.  Gideon holds the key to hold this country together... Whatever position you decide to go for will decide the direction that this country takes. Gideon, it is all in your hands.  If we take this affair lightly, we might not have a home in this country next year. We must commit ourselves on ensuring we work as a team".   Seneta Gideon Moi aelezea matumaini yake kuwa mahakama itatoa uamuzi bora kuhusu mchakato wa BBI  Seneta Gideon Moi awaonya wanakandarasi baada ya mradi wa ujenzi kukuwama | MBIU WIKENDI Sehemu ya 2  Senator Gideon Moi calls upon the Mt. Kenya region leaders to join the One Kenya Alliance By Josphat Thiong'o | 5 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 5 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 5 hours ago By Moses Nyamori and Mireri Junior | 5 hours ago