Interior Cabinet Secretary addressing law enforcement officers at the Kenya School of Government on Thursday, September 9, 2021. [Brian Okoth, Standard]  Interior Cabinet Secretary Dr. Fred Matiang’i has announced a raft of measures to curb unrest in Laikipia County.  The CS created a new police division at Ol Moran, deployed more police reservists and announced a plan to set up elite police training base in the county.  The Government had earlier created a new sub-county in Laikipia called Kirima aimed at tackling perennial insecurity incidents in the area.  Ol Moran, which has the new police division, will be the headquarters of Kirima Sub-County.  Restore security in bandit-hit Laikipia now, senators urge State  Help us end illicit brews or quit, CS Fred Matiang'i tells chiefs  CS Fred Matiang’i announces security changes to end Laikipia killings  Police boss Hilary Mutyambai: We'll restore security in Laikipia soon The minister also announced that two new police stations will be set up in the flash point zones.  Matiang’I, who visited Laikipia on Friday, September 10, said a contingent of new police reservists will be deployed to the disturbed areas.  The elite police training base that would be established in the area would serve as a buffer zone between Laikipia residents and invaders from neighbouring counties, the CS stated.  The Government also plans to deploy surveyors to Laikipia to expedite titling process and recommend action on lapsed leases or those which are about to expire.  The minister also said that the Interior department will engage other relevant ministries and agencies on how best to manage the Laikipia Conservancy, which has been deemed to be the centre of conflict.  The Government will also offer food, water, blankets and mattresses to affected families as resettlement efforts continue.  CS Matiang’i also announced that schools in the county will reopen on Monday, September 13, with police given strict instructions to provide security to the learners.  “More political leaders are on the radar for instigating the attacks ahead of the 2022 General Election,” he said.  Laikipia County has, over the years, been marred by sporadic bandit attacks, as conflicts over grazing zones boil over.   CS Fred Matiang'i says the Government is committed to addressing the insecurity in Laikipia County  Kamket Kizimbani: Mbunge wa Tiaty amekamatwa jana kuhusiana na mapigano eneo la Laikipia  Laikipia county Gov't enters into a lease agreement to enable it scale-up infrastructure development By Antony Gitonga | 6 hours ago By Gilbert Kimutai | 8 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 16 hours ago By Lucas Ngasike | 16 hours ago