The extent to which senior State officers enjoy police protection calls for laws to guide the process.   Appearing before the National Assembly's Committee on Administration and National Security yesterday, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i shared a document revealing that 257 officers are assigned to the office of the Deputy President.  This is a contrast to his predecessors, who had less than 40 police officers. The committee members wondered how an individual can such huge security detail.  Dr Matiang’i challenged the MPs to push for legislation that would create a statutory Act to regulate the number of police officers assigned to a particular office.    List of DP Ruto property under guard  Government reveals DP Ruto’s huge security detail of 257 officers  Inside DP William Ruto’s security detail  Matiang'i: Ruto has biggest security detail in history “Enact a law that brings about limits to solve that problem,” said the CS.  Some MPs complained that the number of officers was too high. “My constituency with a population of 204,000 and has between 70 and 80 police officers. One police officer guards 3,300 people,” said Suna East MP Junet Mohammed.  “I regret that we have taken too long playing politics over an office protected more than my county,” said Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma.  Matiang’i concurred with the MPs that Ruto's security detail far exceeds that of counties like Vihiga and Nyamira.  "This clearly brings me back to Animal Farm by George Orwell where it says that all animals are equal but others are more equal than others,” said Kisumu Woman Representative Rozaah Buyu.  DPs security comprises 74 officers from the Presidential Escort Unit, five General Service Unit officers and six from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, among others.      What would it take to dislodge DP Ruto and Raila as the 2022 frontrunners? | HOUSE OF CARDS  Coalition Jitters: DP Ruto faults Jubilee and ODM coalition, says hustlers will back UDA  DP Ruto using social media to counter his boss & former friend turned political foe President Uhuru By Paul Ogemba | 1 hour ago By Jael Mboga | 1 hour ago By Moses Nyamori and Jacob Ng’etich | 2 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 10 hours ago