Tiaty Mp William Kamket with his Lawyer Kipkoech Ngetich at Nakuru Central Police station during a virtual court session on September 14, 2021. [Kipsang Joseph,Standard]  Tiaty MP William Kamket will spend two nights in police custody pending his bail ruling in connection with Laikipia clashes.  Nakuru Chief Magistrate Elizabeth Usui yesterday said the court will determine whether the Kanu lawmaker will be released on bond tomorrow.  “Court has received several submissions and need time to prepare a ruling. The accused to remain in police custody till then September 16,” ruled the court.    Schools in Laikipia record low turn up of pupils as security is restored  Tackle root causes of Laikipia clashes once and for all  How Matiang’i plans to end Laikipia violence  Restore security in bandit-hit Laikipia now, senators urge State Kamket denied charges of uttering words with subversive intentions contrary to section 77 (1) of the penal code after his lawyers challenged the prosecution's bid to have him detained for 14 days to complete their investigations.  Yesterday, the MP denied that on July 16, 2021, at Amaya in Tiaty Constituency, Baringo County, during a meeting, he uttered words which were calculated to promote hatred between different communities in Ol-Moran.  Kamket, however, said he was in Gilgil, Nakuru County, on the said date.  His lawyers Kipkoech Ng’etich, Clement Koigi and Wanjiku Wamae asked the court to release the MP on bond.  Kipkoech said his client has been attending court sessions when required and was not a flight risk.  He said the charges against his client "are far-fetched and demonstrate that the security personnel had failed in their work.  The lawyer further pleaded with the court to order the Inspector General of Police to increase Kamket’s security, saying he was living in fear.  “He's reasonably apprehensive that he has been profiled."   Mahakama kuu yabatilisha uamuzi wa kumwondoa mamlakani Baringo William Kamket  Baringo county speaker William Kamket reinstated after he won a case that sought his suspension  Baringo county speaker William Kamket reinstated after ouster By Kennedy Gachuhi and James Munyeki | 1 hour ago By Betty Njeru | 4 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 6 hours ago By Titus Too and Lynn Kolongei | 13 hours ago