ODM leader Raila Odinga. [Collins Oduor, Standard]  ODM leader Raila Odinga has dismissed allegations by his political rivals that he believes in witchdoctors. On the contrary, he says he is a Christian who has experienced the power of prayer.  He was addressing congregants at PAG church, Hardy, Karen, Nairobi,  on Sunday 5 September.   “I have heard others calling me a devil, and that I believe in witchcraft. What is bad with witchdoctors? Aren’t they treating people? I am a Christian who prays and there is so much I have gone through with the help of prayers,” he said.  His sentiments come at a time when political temperatures are rising in the country with parties caucusing for mergers in anticipation of next year's General Election.  Does BBI court blow put Ruto ahead of the pack? Not at all  Cabinet divided as ministers wade into 2022 succession row  Raila pledges affordable housing, healthcare and education for all  Matiang’i report delivered a big blow to the ‘hustler’ narrative   Raila has intensified his campaigns on the vote-rich region with hopes of outshining Deputy President William Ruto both of whom are on the race to State House with barely a year to the polls.  There has been a scramble for the Mt Kenya region which votes as a bloc.  The latest, a bid by Narc Kenya party leader Martha Karua, her Service Party (TSP) counterpart Mwangi Kiunjuri and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria to dangle an inter parties forum for the mountain, confirmed the confusion afflicting the region.  Raila told the worshippers that the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) was on a break and would continue when the right time comes.  He said the initiative was meant to bring about equal resource mobilisation by increasing funds allocated to the counties.  “What is wrong with allocating more money to the counties? Reggae has not stopped but rather, is on halftime. When the right time comes, we will go on,” he said.      Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens  Raila Odinga has given the clearest indication yet that he is ready to work with One Kenya Alliance  Raila Odinga: Hio NASA kazi yake ilikwisha, lakini huko mbele tutakuja pamoja By Judah Ben-Hur | 9 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 14 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 20 hours ago By Jael Mboga and Winfrey Owino | 1 day ago