Abdikadir Elmi Robleh when he was presented before Kahawa law court Senior Principal Magistrate Boaz Ombewa on Monday, September 20, 2021.[Collins Kweyu,Standard]  A Nairobi-based businessman who arrested on Friday last week in connection with terrorist links will remain in police custody until Friday when he will be presented in court to face charges of the offense.  Abdikadir Elmi Robleh who owns two schools in Eastleigh appeared before Kahawa Law Court Senior Principal Magistrate Boaz Ombewa under a miscellaneous application by detectives who asked the court to give them five days as they complete with their investigations before charging him officially.  In an affidavit sworn by Sergeant Cyrus Ikade from the Anti-Terrorism Police Unit, the officers said they arrested the suspect in Pangani area of Nairobi on Friday and detained him in connection with  terror activities within the country.  During the arrest, according to Ikade, the suspect was found with a number of items which included four Somali passports, Sim cards and mobile phones which are yet to be fully investigated and forensic examination conducted  in order to identify his accomplices.  Scanty details on dramatic arrest in Likoni over suspected terror links  The fears that plague Ugandan girls in Nairobi's shadowy streets   Two shot dead, four injured in botched Eastleigh robbery  Man arrested for allegedly being in possession of explosive device “Pursuant to brief investigations carried out so far show that the respondent has been in constant communication with a number of well known terrorists cells (Al Shabaab) based in Dhobley, Somalia,” Ikade’s swears.  The affidavit also adds that a brief investigation by police revealed that the respondent is the director of Nadir Integrated Academy and Amud Secondary School, both believed to be illegally offering education and are not registered by the Ministry of Education.  Ikade added that the suspect is believed to possess a Swedish passport which has not been recovered. He is also believed to have a Kenyan identity card and passport, and his multiple nationality needs to be verified as well as how he came to the country and if he’s activities are legitimate.  Robleh’s lawyers Samson Nyamberi and Abdul Hakim while opposing the application to detain him for five days said his client had been in the country since 2014 after being cleared by the immigration department and had a valid work permit.  “Your honour police are being used by a third party who is a partner in Robleh’s business to have him deported so that he can remain managing them. It is also not a crime for a person to have dual citizenship,” said Nyamberi.  In his ruling, Ombewa said he was satisfied with police submissions that the suspect having more than one nationality and based on the alleged offenses facing him was a flight risk and could flee the country.  “The matter will be mentioned on Friday,” said Ombewa.  ckweyu@standardmedia.co.ke   23-year-old woman, Hafsa Mohamed, who went missing in Eastleigh has been rescued by police in Kayole  Hafsa Aokolewa: Msichana aliyekuwa ametekwa nyara Eastleigh amepatikana Kayole  Mombasa terror suspect sentensed to death over Bella Vista bombing By Jacob Ng'etich | 12 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 15 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 1 day ago By Mireri Junior | 1 day ago