From left: Narc Kenya party leader Martha Karua, TSP party leader Mwangi Kiunjuri, and former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  A section of politicians unanimously elected Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua as interim spokesperson of Mt Kenya unity forum.  The leaders said they were working on a blueprint that would be served to all presidential candidates seeking votes in the region. Karua revealed that the blueprint would also be shared with government agencies including Kenya Revenue Authority and Commission on Revenue allocation.  Addressing the Press after a meeting at the Lake Naivasha Resort yesterday, the leaders distanced themselves from demands by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria that the region would seek 40 per cent share of the Government and position of deputy president from whoever they would back in the 2022 presidential contest.    Martha Karua elected interim spokesperson of Mt Kenya Unity Forum   Coming of age of Moses Kuria and what he sees in Uhuru, Ruto and Raila  Speaker Muturi, Karua and Kituyi join Kibwana to craft third force  Musalia Mudavadi faults ODM bid to remove poll team But yesterday, the leaders did not make any demands and instead read a statement that called for unity in the mountain as they seek a stake in the next government.  They tasked Karua to spearhead negotiations with various presidential aspirants and find out whoever would be comfortable with fulfilling interests of Mt Kenya.  The Narc Kenya leader who addressed the Press, said they did not discuss positions in the meeting. She said their focus was on equity in distribution of resources and representation.  “Every leader has the right to raise his demands but as a forum we only discussed issues currently facing the region,” she said.  The leaders faulted calls by Deputy President William Ruto to disband their political parties to join the United Democratic Alliance (UDA). Karua termed calls to disband political parties as misplaced and a return to dictatorship.  “We are committed to uniting Mt Kenya and the diaspora and the issues we discussed revolved around security of persons and parties, equity of representation and equity in sharing resources and development,” she said.  William Kabogo speaks to the press at the sidelines of the Mt Kenya Unity forum meeting. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo, Tetu MP Ndung’u Gethinji, his Kiambu Town counterpart Jude Jomo and Koigi Wamwere among others backed the push to present a united front. The Service Party leader Mwangi Kiunjuri was optimistic that the ongoing meetings of Mt Kenya leaders would bear fruit.  He said they are seeking unity of purpose as they widen their search for a presidential candidate to support.  “When leaders from the mountain meet great things happen and we shall not disappoint this time round as we head to the next elections,” he said.  Kuria said they picked Karua as their spokesperson and given her the blessings to engage other parties and leaders.    Senator Gideon Moi calls upon the Mt. Kenya region leaders to join the One Kenya Alliance  Rift in Mt. Kenya with Kikuyu Elders divided over Muturi's installation as spokesman of the region  Raila and Kalonzo's unity plot ahead of 2022 general elections | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI By Micah Sali | 7 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 7 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 10 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 17 hours ago