ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi has warned Kenyans not to fall into the trap of political power brokers who are peddling rumours that Huduma Number cards will be used during voting in the 2022 General Election.  Speaking at St Cecilia Mirangine Catholic Church, in Dondori, Nyandarua, yesterday, during a funds drive, Mudavadi urged leaders to preach peace and co-existence ahead of the elections.  It was the second time the ANC leader was visiting the county at the invitation of Governor Francis Kimemia and the leadership of the church. “In everything we do, we must put Kenya first then our political conversations will be good,”  he said.  Mudavadi urged Kenyans not to vote into power angry leaders who will not unite the country, forge economic recovery and empower youths.  Governor Kingi starts members recruitment drive for new party  To reduce teen pregnancies, fund reproductive health  Mungai’s 24-year dream of becoming a doctor paid off  Matiang’i report delivered a big blow to the ‘hustler’ narrative   He called on the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to ensure voter registration and education ahead of the 2022 polls.  “I urge the youth who have not collected their ID cards to do so and register as voters especially when the mass voter registration exercise kicks off. He noted that the commission has so far only registered 150,000 new voters since 2017.  The ANC leader said President Uhuru Kenyatta had done a lot in terms of infrastructure and should be supported in fulfilling government agenda.  He dismissed claims that the Head of State was coercing opposition leaders to support his preferred presidential candidate. “The President has never pronounced himself on this,” Mudavadi said.  Mr Kimemia said Kenya “needs a leader of Mudavadi’s calibre who has the interest of the people at heart.”  “Mudavadi is our friend. He is one of the sober leaders who stood by our people and Kenyans at large during the 2007/2008 post-election violence and helped calm the country. He is welcome to sell his agenda in our region and I will support him,” he said.  State House Comptroller and former Nakuru Governor Kinuthia Mbugua said there are leaders whose main goal is win the presidency yet they are not concerned about the unity of the country.  “There are people whose only goal is to get into State House next year. They are self-centered and are angry when they see the President uniting the country and other leaders. We even doubt their Christianity background,” said Mbugua.   Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao  Muungano wa NASA umevunjika rasmi baada ya ANC, Wiper na Ford Kenya kutangaza kujiondoa kwao  Raila Odinga has given the clearest indication yet that he is ready to work with One Kenya Alliance By Winfrey Owino | 2 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 3 hours ago By Nderitu Gichure | 13 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 13 hours ago