Senator Gideon Moi at AIC Tandui church in Sacho, Baringo County. [Kennedy Gachuhi, Standard]  Baringo Senator Gideon Moi today led a fundraiser for church programmes at the AIC Tandui in Sacho, Baringo County.  The Kanu national chairman emphasized the need for Kenyans to support the church and the clergy, reiterating its role in the country.  "Generations that were there before us built the churches we use today. It is now our responsibility to stand with the churches and the clergy," Gideon said.  The senator was with Senate Majority Leader Samuel Poghisio (West Pokot), Baringo Deputy Governor Jacob Chepkwony, Kanu Secretary-General Nick Salat, among other leaders and party officials.  We all have a role to play in church and clergy welfare – Gideon Moi  Embrace politicians, Ruto tells the church  Day Moi sat in church until night and never spoke a word  Two arrested in Mathare for kidnapping six-year-old "Earthly possessions are all vanity. Investing in our churches is not a loss. Each generation has to play its part from where the subsequent generations will pick up," he said.  The senator who steered clear of politics at the pulpit added that the church has the responsibility of taking care of the clerics to enable them to serve better and guide the country.  "Our clerics play a critical role in guiding all other leaders whether civic or political. It is our duty to facilitate their work and ensure they live a decent life," said Gideon.  The AIC clergy led by Rev Francis Chesire made prayers for Gideon in his political journey as One Kenya Alliance which Kanu is part of is expected to make a major announcement next month.  Baringo Woman Representative Gladwell Cheruiyot called on the clergy to stand firm in ensuring the church is respected.  This follows a ban on politicking at the pulpit by select churches across the country as the next general elections draw closer.  "We are glad that the clergy have started to ban politics within the church. If this is not done, the church is likely to lose the respect it deserves as a place of worship," said Gladwell.  She added that the churches should not fear losing the financial support they enjoy from politicians if that will be the cost of keeping the pulpit sanctified.  Senator Gideon is expected to host delegations from Baringo and other counties at his Sacho home in the afternoon.   2 Anglican Church of Kenya Bishops call on the leaders to bridge the gap between the rich & the poor  Nyanza clergy speak on Covid-19 guidelines imposed on the 13 counties  Lakeside Lockdown: Deserted churches as ban is enforced, worshippers relying on online-services By Muriithi Mugo | 8 hours ago By Anne Atieno | 16 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura | 16 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 16 hours ago