Endorsed as presidential candidate: Kanu chairman Gideon Moi. [Standard]  The Kanu National Delegates Conference has unanimously endorsed Party leader Gideon Moi for the presidency in 2022.   Gideon's endorsement was announced at a conference held at the Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi.  At least 3,000 delegates drawn from Kenya’s 47 counties attended the conference.  The unanimous decision was read out by Kanu Secretary-General Nick Salat.  Prof Hamo introduces Jemutai as wife at Kanu event  PHOTOS: Pomp as Kanu endorses Gideon Moi to run for president  Raila: Gideon Moi is not from a dynasty  Gideon Moi gears for State House race as KANU top organ meets today The delegates okayed Gideon to engage other political leaders as the 2022 race for the presidency takes shape.  Salat urged other political parties to support Kanu in the race for the presidency, saying the party had supported other parties in three previous general elections.  In his acceptance speech, Gideon said his key priority would be placing the interest of Kenyans at the centre of his operations.  “Our ideology is simple: every Kenyan should have control of his life with minimal interference from the Government,” he said.  The Kanu chairperson said he would soon roll out his manifesto, highlighting how he intends to empower Kenyans economically and combat graft.  “Kanu has come here to announce and declare that 20 years of halftime is over. Kanu is here to reclaim its position at the top echelon of the country’s top leadership. Kanu is back!” affirmed Gideon.  The ceremony was attended by, among others, ODM leader Raila Odinga, his Wiper counterpart Kalonzo Musyoka and Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi.   "Mimi niko ready, any moment," Ruto says he is ready to reconcile with Uhuru without any conditions  CS Matiang'i hits again as Deputy President William Ruto fights back | PRESS REVIEW  Seneta Gideon Moi aelezea matumaini yake kuwa mahakama itatoa uamuzi bora kuhusu mchakato wa BBI By Too Jared | 2 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 3 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 17 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 17 hours ago