The Anti-Corruption Court in Nairobi has cleared South Sudan minister Martin Elia Lomuro to access his bank accounts.  Justice Cecilia Githua issued the orders after the Asset Recovery Agency told the court that it was satisfied with his explanation on the source of the money.  "The applicant (Assets Recovery Agency) is satisfied with the explanation provided by the respondent on the source of the funds. The application dated June 2, 2021, and July 6, 2021, is compromised and the orders dated June 4, 2021, are rescinded. The respondent is at liberty to operate the account,” ruled Justice Githua.  Justice James Wakiaga had frozen Mr Lomuro’s bank accounts over suspicion that he was involved in money laundering.  The minister now claims that Kenya bowed to pressure from the US and UK, which was aimed at embarrassing President Salva Kiir’s government.  South Sudan minister faults US, UK over bank woes  Internet disrupted, streets quiet in South Sudan after call for protests  South Sudan President Salva Kiir orders end to factional infighting  Countries that have never won an Olympic medal Lomuro filed an application seeking to set aside the orders. In his application, he accused Kenya of "bowing to arm-twisting tactics" by the two countries.  The US sanctioned Lomuro, who is South Sudan’s minister for Cabinet Affairs, alongside his Defence counterpart Manyang Juuk after linking them to violence in Africa’s youngest country in 2019.  Discredit image  “I believe that the applicant (Asset Recovery Agency) herein is cooperating with the said US Department of Treasury as well as the National Crime Agency in the United Kingdom to discredit my image and that of the Republic of South Sudan through false, malicious and unsubstantiated allegations,” Lomuro said.  The Asset Recovery Agency said that Lomuro’s account received more than Sh122 million. He withdrew Sh109 million and left at least Sh13 million.  The transactions were in a bank account held in the name of his wife, Rejah Kedi Ladu Kenyi.  Lomuro said his tribulations with the US are not just about the freeze orders. He claims a bank in Kenya closed his US dollar account in January last year, and the UK had also frozen his accounts earlier in 2019.      South Sudanese ex-rebel leader Riek Machar sworn in as first Vice President  South Sudan’s rebel chief Riek Machar misses international deadline to return to Juba  Salva Kiir has bowed to many of demands raised by Machar’s side, says S. Sudan ambassador By Reuters | 2 hours ago By Reuters | 22 hours ago By Reuters | 1 day ago By Reuters | 1 day ago