Basic Education Principal Secretary Dr. Julius Jwan. [File, Standard]  At least 228,000 primary school teachers have been trained on the Competency-based Curriculum (CBC), the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) says.  The TSC says training of teachers who will handle Grade Six pupils will be done in December 2021.  The Commission made the revelations at Hilton Hotel in Nairobi on Tuesday, September 14 during Education ministry’s top officials’ meeting with the Kenya Editors Guild.  The teachers’ employer further reveals that at least 60,000 high school teachers will, in March and April next year, be trained in preparation for the rollout of junior secondary.  Form Two student begs for school fees in city streets  No turning back on CBC, the train has left station, CS Magoha tells critics  Teachers adequately trained on CBC, Magoha says  Is school homework really necessary? The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) said syllabus designs from Grade One to Ten are ready.  The Education ministry further said that the Kenya National Examinations Council (KNEC) will, from September 27 to October 1, roll out the pilot summative assessment for Grade Six pupils.  This, the ministry says, will enable the exams body to generate a sample paper for the final assessment.  The pilot test will also allow KNEC to establish suitability of the assessment tools, the exams’ difficulty levels, language appropriateness, adequacy of the duration of the exam and the reporting format for learners’ competencies.  The pilot test will be conducted in both public and private primary schools in the 47 counties.  Basic Education Principal Secretary Dr. Julius Jwan further reiterated the ministry’s commitment to the CBC, saying “parents are only complaining about too much work given to the learners, but have no issue with the quality of learning offered”.  “Parental engagement in their children’s learning is vital,” he said.   Vituo vya Mitihani: KNEC yatoa masharti mapya kuhusu shule kuwa vituo vya mitihani  New Sports Curriculum: Gov't launches physical education and sports policy in accordance with CBC  Serikali yazindua sera mpya ya elimu ya mazoezi kwa mujibu wa kanuni za utekelezaji wa mtaala wa CBC By James Wanzala | 1 day ago By Betty Njeru | 2 days ago By Nikko Tanui | 2 days ago By Antoney Luvinzu | 3 days ago