Wiper Democratic Movement leader Kalonzo Musyoka (pictured) has aid corruption fuels inequality and poverty in the country.  Kalonzo noted that some leaders enrich themselves impoverishing majority of Kenyans.  He regretted that greed for money has been normalised to an extent that some Kenyans sing praises for corrupt individuals.  At the same time, Kalonzo has dropped the name Caleb he was baptised at the height of the campaigns for 2017 elections when he was the running mate of ODM leader Raila and said he is now Joshua and will lead Kenyans to Canaan.  Moi University dismisses ghost workers’ allegations, to comply with EACC probe  Kenyans paid more bribes in 2020 compared to 2019   A season of many hungers is upon us, but who will stop ‘tumbocrats’ from stealing?  EACC grills Anne Waiguru over Sh52m land bill Speaking on Sunday when he attended service at Royal Christian Church in Ongata Rongai, the Wiper leader promised that his government will recover stolen wealth and revert it to the economy.  Kalonzo pledged free secondary education free to ease the burden on parents.  He noted that Kenya requires a paradigm shift post-Covid-19 and a 24-hour economy model will be key to stimulate the economy and create jobs.  The Wiper leader urged the government to ensure vaccination of more than 10 million Kenyans by December.  He noted that Covid-19 was killing many Kenyans while treatment for those infected to too expensive for mwananchi.  Leaders accompanying Kalonzo declared that he will be on the presidential ballot and vowed to traverse the country and campaign for him.       Kalonzo asema lengo lake kubwa katika uchaguzi mkuu ujao ni kumshinda William Ruto | MBIU WIKENDI 2  Governor Charity Ngilu urges Kalonzo and Raila to mend fences and work together ahead of 2022 polls  Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka calls out political leaders who renege on political agreements By George Njunge | 1 hour ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 2 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 18 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 18 hours ago