President Uhuru Kenyatta makes changes in the cabinet. [File, Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta has on Wednesday, September 28, afternoon made some changes in the Cabinet. The changes are expected to take effect immediately.  Defence Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma has been moved to the Energy and Petroleum ministry previously held by Charles Keter.  Charles Keter has been moved from the Ministry of Energy to the Devolution Ministry previously held by Eugene Wamalwa.  Eugene Wamalwa has been moved from Devolution Ministry to the Ministry of Defence, a position previously held by Monica Juma.  Kenyans to enjoy cheaper electricity after Uhuru directive  Jubilee government has failed us; the next one should not  Uhuru must prepare Kenyans for three transitions, his real legacies  Hidden scenarios: Options for Uhuru and Raila   In addition, Maj. Gen Gordon Kihalangwa, the Principal Secretary of Public Works, has been moved to the State Department of Energy to serve as the Principal Secretary of the Department.  The State Department for Arid and Semi-arid Lands (ASALs) has been transferred to the Ministry of Public Service & Gender.    The State Department for Social Protection, Pensions and Senior Citizens has been transferred to the Ministry of Public Service & Gender.  The Department of Special Programmes is transferred to the State Department for Social Protection, Pensions and Senior Citizens Affairs; which State Department is renamed as the State Department for Social Protection, Senior Citizens Affairs and Special Programmes;    The Ministry of Devolution & the Arid and Semi-arid Lands ASALs is hereby reconstituted and renamed as the Ministry of Devolution;     The Ministry of Public Service & Gender is hereby reconstituted and renamed as the Ministry of Public Service, Gender, Senior Citizens Affairs & Special Programmes; and the Ministry of Labour & Social Protection is hereby reconstituted and renamed as the Ministry of Labour.    "Mimi niko ready, any moment," Ruto says he is ready to reconcile with Uhuru without any conditions  HOUSE OF CARDS: Is the State secretly engineering plot to have a compromise candidate succeed Uhuru?  Rais Uhuru Kenyatta adai kuwa Kenya ipo tayari kwa mashindano ya WRC By Grace Ng'ang'a | 2 hours ago By Grace Ng’ang’a | 7 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 8 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 9 hours ago