Ol Moran pupils during a school assembly. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  No alarming incidents have been reported in Laikipia County and its environs, the National Police Service has said.  A police report on Tuesday stated that: “Residents of Laikipia woke up to a peaceful day and there were no alarming incidents at all.”  Learning has also resumed in the area despite low turnout registered in some schools.  Security officers donned in military regalia could be seen guarding learners at select schools in images provided by the National Police Service (NPS).  Laikipia calm but majority of teachers, pupils keep off schools  Normalcy restored in Laikipia, Mutyambai says  Schools in Laikipia record low turn up of pupils as security is restored  Picking up pieces of life after two months of conflict in Laikipia Police deployed to guard learners in Laikipia as schools reopen. [NPS]  On Monday, schools in Ol Moran, Laikipia West recorded a low turnout, following a month-long of indefinite closure after a wave of insecurity perpetrated by suspected bandits and invasion by herders.  A spot-check by The Standard on Monday, September 13, established that a majority of the schools remained shut after learners failed to turn up despite the Government’s assurance of security.  Miharati, Mirigwit, Ndunyu, and Tumaini Primary Schools had no learners but there was a heavy presence of police officers and National Police Reservists (NPRs).  Police, however, say they remain on high alert and will beef up security in Laikipia in a bid to flush out bandits.  Last week, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i announced a range of measures to curb unrest in the area.  Matiang’i created a new police division at Ol Moran, deployed more police reservists and announced a plan to set up elite police training base in the county.  The CS, who visited Laikipia on Friday, September 10, said a contingent of new police reservists will be deployed to the disturbed areas.  The elite police training base that would be established in the area would serve as a buffer zone between Laikipia residents and invaders from neighbouring counties, he stated.   Tension high in Loosuk village Samburu county as 10 armed bandits invaded grazing livesto  Kijana wa umri wa miaka nane afungwa chini ya mti Pokot  Hospitali ya Kapenguria inapokea watoto zaidi ya sabini walioathirika na utapia mlo By Julius Chepkwony | 12 minutes ago By Kennedy Gachuhi and James Munyeki | 1 hour ago By Antony Gitonga | 6 hours ago By Titus Too and Lynn Kolongei | 13 hours ago