Deputy President William Ruto in Gilgil, Nakuru county, on August 9, 2021. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto yesterday said that the National Security Council established a security model for the presidency and constitutional offices and it was the only agency that can make changes after they had discussed and formally approved at the appropriate level.   In a statement sent to the newsroom, Ruto's secretary of communication David Mugonyi said the DP does not deploy security to himself or to anyone else.  Mugonyi was responding to Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i remarks that the DP's security detail comprises 257 police officers who guard him, his homes, and property across the country   He noted that Ruto has been in office since 2013 and it is deceitful for Dr. Matiang'i to suddenly realise that his residence was not a protected area and not entitled to GSU protection.   DP Ruto: I own most of the property listed by CS Matiang’i, but there is more   Ruto: I have 200,000 chicken and make Sh1.5m a day selling eggs  List of DP Ruto property under guard  There’s no law on allocation of guards to VIPs, House told "This realisation nine years after the fact, in the context of many other orchestrated political machination against the Deputy President, clearly indicate that Dr Matiang'i was acting in explicit pursuit of a malevolent political agenda," said Mugonyi.   He said Ruto was elected to discharge and fulfill a critical constitutional mandate and his security is therefore necessary to ensure that the same is not undermined.     "There are precedents where his security has been breached. Each of these breaches has not only threatened our constitutional order; it has caused anxiety, tension and despondency among the citizens of Kenya," said Mugonyi.  He accused the CS of propagating falsehood in Parliament over the property associated with the DP that was getting state security.  "Dr Matiang'i desecrated the hallowed precincts of Parliament, exploiting it as a forum to propagate malicious falsehoods and assaulted the dignity of that institution by recklessly publishing inaccurate data purporting to be the property interests and security deployments of the Deputy President. In fact, most of the property listed do not belong to the DP," said Mugonyi.   He claimed that the CS was not interested in understanding concerns about the security of the DP.   "Dr Matiang'i has abused public resources and the power of his office to score cheap points in a futile attempt to humiliate, disparage, denigrate and ridicule the person and the Office of the Deputy President for political propaganda," said Mugonyi.   The DP's secretary of communication further claimed that the CS conducted himself in a manner totally unbecoming of the holder of such high office and has attempted to profile the DP as ineligible to receive services from the Ministry of Interior.   "This cavalier attitude towards his responsibilities and functions is a brazen assault on Article 10, Chapter 6 and 10 of the Constitution of Kenya," said Mugonyi.   By singling out the DP and casting adverse attention, to the particulars of his security arrangements, Mugonyi said Matiang'i discriminated against the Office and the person of the DP, potentially exposing him to further security threats.   "To underscore Matiang'i’s recklessness, property allocated to the Deputy President in his statement to Parliament are in fact not his," said Mugonyi.  He said that Ruto was on record as early as 2018 declaring readiness to undergo a lifestyle audit as per the President's directive and associating him with some property was therefore unnecessary and malicious.   "It is dishonest of Dr Matiang'i to compare offices from an obsolete constitutional and historical era, and which preexisted the Office of Deputy President, when it is elementary that the Office of the Deputy President is established by the 2010 Constitution," said Mugonyi.   Search for Mbijiwe: Security consultant still missing with car he was using recovered in Ruiru  Food Security: Fertilizer use gradually improving with sensitization programs paying off  Security Breach: Man attempted to access main dias during Madaraka day celebrations in Kisumu By Moses Nyamori and Jacob Ng'etich | 11 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 11 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 11 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 20 hours ago