Witnesses say Abdiwahab Abdusamad was accosted by unknown people while walking in the CBD. [Courtesy]  The family of a 55-year-old man reported to have been abducted in Nairobi now wants the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) to explain the man’s whereabouts.  The family has planned to meet DCI director George Kinoti after their kin mysteriously disappeared while walking within the Central Business District.  Abdiwahab Sheikh Abdusamad was reported missing at the Nairobi Central Police station on Thursday evening.  Abu Ayman, who spoke on behalf of the missing man’s family, said Abdusamad was accosted by unknown people while walking along Tubman road near City Market.  Man in custody for kidnapping, defiling two minors  Tiaty MP William Kamket faces incitement charges over Laikipia violence  SIM swap fraud suspects to be arraigned in Kiambu  Nairobi: DCI arrests three suspects linked to money-laundering scheme Abdiwahab Abdusamad was reported missing at Central Police station. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  He said Abdusamad was bundled into a blue double-cabin pickup before it sped off.  Ayman said the family had visited police stations in Nairobi in search of their missing relative, adding that they were worried because they do not know if Abdusamad was picked up by the police or by criminals.  “If he has done anything wrong, then the best thing is to be taken him to court,” Ayman said.  Yesterday, a delegation of Muslim leaders including officials from the Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims (Supkem) National Muslim Leader’s Forum and Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya sought audience with DCI chief George Kinoti over the matter.  Supkem chair Al-Haji Hassan Ole Naado addressing the press outside DCI headquarters, September 10, 2021. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  The leaders are seeking answers on the whereabouts of Abdusamad and other people reported to be missing. Lawyer Ahmednasir Abdullahi also called on the Inspector General Hillary Mutyambai and Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to act on the matter.  “I am supremely disgusted that 48 hours after Abdihawab was snatched in broad daylight in Nairobi, Matiangi and IG-NPS can’t say a word,” the senior counsel said on Twitter.  On June 12, security consultant Mwenda Mbijiwe was reported to have disappeared while on his way to Meru from Nairobi. A car Mbijiwe had hired was found abandoned in Ruiru. Police are yet to trace his whereabouts.   Finally Justice for Kwekwe's family after Court sets a date  Police officers convicted of killing 14 year old Kwekwe Mwandaza to know their fate on Monday  Two police men convicted of manslaughter By Mireri Junior | 1 hour ago By Mireri Junior | 2 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 5 hours ago By Willis Oketch | 7 hours ago