A grader digs channels for laying water distribution pipes in Rachuonyo South Sub-county. [James Omoro, Standard]  Shortage of clean water will be a thing of the past in Oyugis town and its environs following the implementation of a Sh580 million project in the town.  The Oyugis Water Supply Project is to serve residents of Oyugis and trading centres and villages in Rachuonyo South, Homa Bay County.  The project is designed to serve 73,000 households by the end of this year.  The project will produce 12, 300 cubic metres of water per day in the initial stages before expanding to serve over 120, 000 residents in the year 2040.  Grief as retired soldier kills his mother  Boy held over girl’s death in fight for pasture  Mob lynches man who killed his brother  Boy held over girl’s death in fight for pasture  Mob lynches man who killed his brother The programme is implemented by the Central Rift Valley Water Works Development Agency and funded by the African Development Bank (ADB) in partnership with the National Government.  Speaking when he toured the project on Thursday, Central Rift Valley Water Works Development Agency acting CEO Samwel Oruma said implementation of the project is expected to end in December.  He said residents whose land is used for the project have been compensated and the work is going on smoothly.  “We are moving with the necessary speed to ensure the project is completed by the end of this year,” Oruma said.  Oruma who was accompanied by ADB’s Kenya executive director Amos Cheptoo and Lake Victoria South Water Works Development Agency acting CEO Chrispin Juma said their aim is to alleviate the shortage of clean water in the area.  This will improve the health of the residents.  “Water is life and our intention is to reduce water-borne diseases such as cholera bilharzia which result from the use of unsafe water,” he added.  The acting CEO urged residents to own the project and protect the construction materials from vandalism.  Juma said the project will help the residents to undertake agriculture besides getting water for domestic use.  “I want residents to register with the Homa Bay Water and Sanitation Company to enable them get this water in their homes at the right time,” said Juma.  Cheptoo said the ADB’s intention is to help ease poverty in Kenya.  “Implementation of the project has reached 60 per cent. I believe it will end at the stipulated time. It will improve the livelihood of the people,” said Cheptoo.  By Eric Abuga and James Oromo | 3 hours ago By Anne Atieno | 4 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 1 day ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 2 days ago