Inspector-General Hillary Mutyambai. [File, Standard]  The Inspector-General of Police Service Hillary Mutyambai has responded to an expose on Sunday, September 26, warning Kenyans to be cautious of get-rich-quick schemes, which have left most people in Nairobi downtown crying foul.  His sentiments came hours after KTN News aired a 14-minute investigative story of how well-connected swindlers were working with some authorities to con unsuspecting Kenyans their fortunes.  During his weekly engage the IG session on social media on Monday, September 27, Mutyambai said they (the police) had received several reports and made some arrests and prosecutions.  “There are several cases that have been reported and action has been taken including arrests and prosecutions. Kenyans should however be cautious of get-rich-quick schemes,” his tweet read.  Normalcy restored in Laikipia, Mutyambai says  Deal with Laikipia violence, DP Ruto tells Mutyambai  Programme to help ailing police officers launched  Police boss's directive has cost musicians millions of shillings The national police boss was responding to a question posed by Ezra Kirui, a Twitter user, on how they were intending to deal with the police and Karata gangs who collude to rob unsuspecting Kenyans.  “Give us a road map of action you intend to take,” Kirui’s tweet read in part.  Further, the IG said that training of Boda Boda operators on traffic rules and security was underway after which the police will conduct a crackdown on riders found flouting traffic rules.  This was after some Kenyans raised concern over the rising cases of rogue Boda Boda riders, notorious for breaking traffic rules and endangering motorists and pedestrians lives.  The Inspector-General conducts a weekly session every Monday on social media where he answers questions posed to him by Kenyans.   POLICE STATE? Concern over arrest of 3 senators on day of revenue formula vote  Matiang'i and Mutyambai appear before Senate, media barred from covering CS grilling  Inspekta Hillary Mutyambai aongoza halfa ya kukabidhi magari 17 kwa Trafiki huko South C, Nairobi By Winfrey Owino | 21 minutes ago By Kamau Muthoni | 1 hour ago By Peter Muiruri | 5 hours ago By Biketi Kikechi | 9 hours ago