Schools at Ol Moran area in Laikipia West have recorded a low turnout of learners on the first day of reopening.  On Saturday, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i announced that schools will be put on full-time guard of police officers.  “The learners and teachers will be escorted to and from school to ensure they are not ambushed along the way. We have tripled the number of police officers in the area,” said Dr Matiang’i.    A spot check by The Standard established that most of the 16 schools shut due to insecurity did not reopen on Monday morning as expected.  Glimmer of hope as schools resume learning in Laikipia  Picking up pieces of life after two months of conflict in Laikipia  Tackle root causes of Laikipia clashes once and for all  Schools in Laikipia to reopen – Interior CS Fred Matiang’i Mirigwit Primary School, which was partly demolished by suspected bandits two weeks ago, had no learners or teachers by 8 am.  The situation was the same at Tumaini Primary School, which is near the Laikipia Nature Conservancy. There were no learners at the facility. Only a handful of Tumaini pupils are now learning at St Mark Catholic Church.  The school with the highest turnout of learners was Ol Moran Primary School, which has a total enrollment of 586.  "We have been given two police officers to guard the school. 65 learners out of 586 had reported by 8:15 am. We hope the number will increase," said the school headteacher James Tinega.  Mr Tinega said that he was yet to receive any communication from parents whose children did not report on Monday.  "Some parents that I know had moved to distant places. It is our hope they will be back soon," said Tinega.  kgachuhi@standardmedia.co.ke       Tension high in Loosuk village Samburu county as 10 armed bandits invaded grazing livesto  Kijana wa umri wa miaka nane afungwa chini ya mti Pokot  Hospitali ya Kapenguria inapokea watoto zaidi ya sabini walioathirika na utapia mlo By Winfrey Owino | 3 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 5 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 5 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 9 hours ago