NARC leader Martha Karua was elected interim spokesperson by some leaders for Mount Kenya Region. [File, Standard]  National Rainbow Coalition (NARC) leader, Martha Karua, has been unanimously elected as an interim spokesperson by a section of political leaders for the Mount Kenya Region in a consultative meeting held in Naivasha, Nakuru County.  This comes weeks after Martha Karua, her The Service Party (TSP) counterpart Mwangi Kiunjuri and Chama Cha Kazi's Moses Kuria came together and reach out to all political parties with a presence in the region to work with them on the new endeavours.  In a press briefing today, the leaders said they had come together to address permanent issues affecting their region ahead of the 2022 General Election.  For whom, what and how should Kenyans vote in 2022?  Kikuyu elders to support Raila’s quest for top seat  Ruto’s church politicking irony  It's time to face voters not 'tea' meetings, says Mwangi wa Iria “This forum is not limited to the presidential race but to unite the Central Region and the diaspora. It is not a short-lived forum but one that will outlive us,” Karua said.    The leaders, drawn from various parts of the Mount Kenya Region said they were working on a blueprint that would be served to all presidential candidates seeking votes in the region, known for voting as a bloc.  The leaders said they were aiming at protecting democracy, ensuring equity in resource allocation and decision making.  Present at the Naivasha meeting were Martha Karua, former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria among others.  Prior to this, Karua had met Kuria and Kiunjuri and together they publicised their unity of purpose, adding they were committed to working together on issues affecting Mt Kenya and the nation “irrespective of our political affiliation.”  They announced a meeting would be held in Limuru before the end of 2021 to come up with a way forward for the region in the President Uhuru Kenyatta succession race.   Exploring the preparedness and the key timeliness of the IEBC to conduct the 2022 General Elections  UDA and People's Empowerment Party headed for collision with both eyeing vacant Kiambaa seat  David Murathe: I think the next step should be for us to kick Moses out of the party | #NEWSHOUR By Erastus M Mulwa | 15 hours ago By Ndung’u Gachane | 17 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 23 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 23 hours ago