Traders and residents of Migori County have expressed fears over recent attacks targeting churches and shops during curfew hours.  Ezekiel Marara, a watchman at a supermarket in Migori town was attacked and three motorbikes and spare parts valued at Sh560,000 stolen. “They attacked me using machetes and other crude weapons,” Marara said.  Marara, who was speaking from Migori Referral Hospital where he was receiving treatment, said he had sustained head and back injuries.  Henry Otieno, a manager from whose shop motorbikes were stolen told The Standard that a CCTV footage captured the incident.    MP tells leaders to keep off Masinde Muliro University VC hiring  Ghati dumps senatorial bid after Court of Appeal verdict   Man arrested for allegedly hacking disabled son to death  Shock as Migori man commits suicide after death of 'girlfriend' “As traders and investors, we are worried that cases of insecurity have been on the increase in Migori town,” Otieno said.  Meanwhile, a church in Migori town was broken into over the weekend. George Othina, an official at Maranatha Faith Assemblies in Migori town, said thugs broke into the church and the nearby Abison Recording Studio and stole electronics and furniture.  John Chacha, the proprietor of Mnati Bar in Kehancha town said lack of security lights and impassable back roads had increased muggings and break-ins.  While speaking to the press in Migori town yesterday, Migori County Police Commander Mark Wanjala said they had increased police patrols during curfew hours.  “We have enhanced patrols, but because of the curfew it is easier for criminals to notice police coming from far and then hide. To be more effective we have asked watchmen and residents to alert police for rapid response,” Mr Wanjala said.  He said in places where theft had been reported, they had launched investigations.   Wafugaji kuku Migori kunufaika iwapo pendekezo la kujengwa kwa kiwanda cha kuku litatekelezwa  Mke ataka wavamizi waliomvamia mumewe na kumkata uume wakmatwe  Why Migori county residents want Judge Jackton Ojwang removed from the Supreme Court By James Omoro | 1 day ago By Harold Odhiambo | 1 day ago By Harold Otieno Odhiambo | 2 days ago By Stanley Ongwae | 2 days ago