Deputy President William Ruto. August 21, 2021. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto has said that he will not be cowed by obstacles being placed in the way of his presidential bid.  Ruto accused Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju and Vice Chairman David Murathe of auctioning the party to ODM, saying this forced him to champion United Democratic Alliance (UDA).  Speaking at the Full Gospel Churches of Kenya (FGCK) Mbiriri in Kieni constituency, Nyeri County, Ruto claimed that his political opponents were working in cahoots with senior government officials to sabotage his bid.  More than 25 leaders who accompanied the DP castigated area MP Kanini Kega for allegedly seeking to sabotage the event.  Raila pledges affordable housing, healthcare and education for all  Matiang’i report delivered a big blow to the ‘hustler’ narrative  Edwin Sifuna warns against backing politicians ‘because they are from your community’  DP Ruto: No retreat, no surrender "I want to tell all those planning to sabotage me that there will be no retreat or surrender up until I win this race and liberate hustlers of this nation. Those behind the move should be made aware that this time around it's not about coalitions but making Wanjiku rich through good economic policies," said Ruto.   The DP said leaders pushing for coalitions to defeat him in next year's polls were wasting time and should instead focus on how to lift Kenyans from poverty.  "Since the handshake, Jubilee was hijacked by Raila and this made us lose out core mandate of big four agenda. That is when Kenyans started to suffer and we shall make sure we revive this once we ascend to power," he said.  The DP reiterated that he stood with President Uhuru Kenyatta during hard times including they faced charges before the International Criminal Court.  "I assure you that I will stand by Mt Kenya residents and the poor to the bitter end," he said.  Leaders including MP Rigathi Gachagua urged Mt Kenya residents to support Ruto saying he has their best interests at heart.   Earlier rowdy youths caused chaos before Ruto arrived in Kieni.  In Narumoro, youth pelted a vehicle belonging to Nakuru East MP David Gikaria with stones, damaging the windows.  Three allies of Kega were forcibly ejected from the church compound by youth allied to UDA. Kieni constituency chairman Maina Munene suffered bruises.    CS Matiang'i hits again as Deputy President William Ruto fights back | PRESS REVIEW  Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao  Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana By Moses Nyamori | 1 hour ago By Boniface Gikandi  | 6 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 10 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 10 hours ago