The Service Party (TSP) leader Mwangi Kiunjuri has called for return of Kenya Police Reservists (KPR) in volatile Laikipia County, following a spate of banditry attacks.  Kiunjuri, who is former Laikipia East MP said presence of law enforcement officials has not kept away the bandits and KPR are best suited to curb such attacks.  "When we had our home guards, there were no cases of attacks, this is because no police officer would agree to enter into a forest to face the attackers, but these home guards can," he said.  The TSP leader expressed concern that attacks have increased just days after Kenya Defence Forces soldiers were deployed to contain the situation.  He also called for interrogation of politicians suspected to be fuelling the attacks. "How come the government has long hands as claimed, but is yet to prosecute anybody? There has been a pattern of banditry from the past and the government has been seeing their movements. What does the government knows that we don’t?" he posed.  Spurs go top of Premier League after Son sinks Watford  Kane makes first appearance as Alli earns Spurs a win at Wolves  Nuno says 'not my job to convince players' after Ndombele exit talk  Kane to Man City? Harry Kane not part of Tottenham’s Europa Conference League traveling squad Some 12 people have been killed in the region over the last three weeks. Kiunjuri has however pleaded with residents not to flee their homes as the situation is being addressed.  "We have become IDPs in our own land. But we are saying we shall not move out of Laikipia, unless we are going to heaven," he said.  jngetich@standardmedia.co.ke       Council of Governors console Kibaki and the family at their Muthaiga home  Senators and the National Government claim Governors are hindering county developments  Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri dismisses claims that County governments have not received money By James Munyeki and Kennedy Gachuhi | 2 hours ago By Irissheel Shanzu | 2 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 5 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 8 hours ago