State House Comptroller Kinuthia Mbugua yesterday joined in the attack against Deputy President William Ruto ahead of next year's elections.  Mr Mbugua, who served as the governor for Nakuru County, tore into the country's second in command, criticising him for taking on an administration he is still part of.  The former governor, who accompanied ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi to a fundraiser in aid of St Cecilia Catholic Church in Ol Kalou, Nyandarua County, cast doubts into Ruto's sincerity and his promises.  "There are people whose only goal is to get into State House next year. They are self-centred. They are the architects of derailing development during Uhuru's term," said Mbugua.  The State House Comptroller took issue with Ruto's opposition to a unity pact with other leaders, accusing him of speaking from both sides of his mouth.  Kinyanjui changes tack to fend off opposition in 2022 governor's contest  Boni Khalwale: Former governors seeking 2022 comeback are politically unhygienic  MCAs want State House Comptroller probed  Naivasha farmer Tom Cholmondeley laid to rest   "These are people who feel angered when they see the President uniting the country and its leaders. They want us to keep seeing each other as enemies," said Mbugua.  He asked Kenyans not to judge the president harshly, noting that his administration had achieved more than the previous governments.  "Let us judge President Uhuru fairly. For the nine years he has been in office, he could not complete all the dreams he had for the country. Let us focus on what he has done. We should not judge him harshly," said Mbugua.  Mbugua joins a growing list of senior civil servants who have come out to publicly criticise the deputy president after his fallout with his boss.  His utterances came a few days after Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i told parliament that Ruto was seeking sympathy after his security was changed.  It also followed another attack by ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru, who accused the DP of misleading the youth with his 'hustler' narrative.  Mudavadi said national interests must be placed before personal interests.  "We must lay the foundation of the future. This can only be achieved by having patriotic thoughts even as we pursue personal aspirations," said Mudavadi.   Wakaazi wa Nakuru wavamia afisi kuu ya kaunti kuwasilisha malalamishi yao kwa Gavana Kinuthia Mbugua  Largest biogas power plant in Africa opened in Naivasha  Nakuru hawkers to vacate the precincts of Nakuru’s Central Business District By Brian Otieno | 57 minutes ago By Steve Mkawale | 59 minutes ago By Maina Kiai | 1 hour ago By Ndung’u Gachane | 1 hour ago