ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi says his 2022 presidential quest is unstoppable.  The former vice president said he was ready to face other hopefuls, including Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga in the ballot.  “My presidential bid has no reverse gear. I have experience and the ticket from my party to vie for the presidency. Anything short of that is not within my making. We have supported others in previous elections and time has come for us to captain the ship,” said Mudavadi.  Speaking during an interview with Inooro FM, the ANC leader said he would not back any of the politicians for the top seat. Mudavadi said he has served in government and had experience from several ministerial positions, which would help him form a competent government if he wins.     Kenya's 98-year-old Standard Six pupil now a superstar in France  What Cristiano Ronaldo’s annual salary at Man United can fund in Kenya  Farmers steer clear of coffee loan fund amid sector issues  MCAs reject NMS bid for parking fees in estates He said he could pick a running mate from Mt Kenya region because the region has politically experienced people besides a rich political history that cannot be ignored in the 2022 succession matrix.  “I will continue persuading them to support my bid since from the look of things, there is no strong presidential aspirant from Mt Kenya this time round as we speak,” said Mudavadi.  He urged Kenyans to elect leaders of integrity, saying time has come to vote in leaders based on the ideals and values, not tribes.  “What is the face behind the name of the leader you want to vote in as your president? Is he angry, a thief or corrupt? If you elect an angry leader, he will be distracted by anger and could hurt citizens,” he said.  In response to a call by Nandi Governor Stephen Sang to him to support Ruto and not Raila, Mudavadi said the two political leaders have been part of the Jubilee administration and had failed to correct economic ills.  “Ruto has been in this government for nine years and took part in formulating policies that have worked against the people. What new thing is he going to do to make the economy work that he has not done? Kenyans don’t need economic models but realistic solutions and answers,” he said.  He added: “Raila joined the government three years ago through the handshake. Despite the move cooling political temperatures, he has not helped the President shape the economy, actually the economy suffered more. So, what new thing is he going to do?”  Mudavadi, at the same time, challenged the deputy president to resign if he feels his relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta had deteriorated.    “We are astonished at the level of disrespect from the DP’s office and his allies directed at the President and his office,” said Mudavadi.  “Let him resign and then comfortably criticise the presidency but as it is now, he should accept credit where it is due and admit failures of a government where he is a principal. He can’t have his cake and eat it.”  Separately, the ANC leader called on the government to fund the poll body to carry out its mandate effectively. He said the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is a key player in the electoral process. “We need to ensure the electoral commission is well funded to carry out free, fair and credible elections.   Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao  Muungano wa NASA umevunjika rasmi baada ya ANC, Wiper na Ford Kenya kutangaza kujiondoa kwao  Raila Odinga has given the clearest indication yet that he is ready to work with One Kenya Alliance By Brian Otieno | 2 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 2 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 2 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 9 hours ago