Kenyan paper currency. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  Caren Wekesa, a resident of Korogocho, Eldama Ravine in Baringo, claims she lost Sh50,000 to a senior police officer who took advantage of her naivety.  According to Ms Wekesa, her husband Daniel Njuguna was arrested and arraigned in court for allegedly being in possession of 19 rolls of bhang valued at Sh2,000.  She claimed Njuguna pleaded guilty to the offense and was fined Sh50,000 or serve six months in jail.  Out of ignorance, she raised the Sh50,000 fine and instead of paying it to the Judiciary as required by law, she took it to Makutano Police Station and handed it over to a senior police officer.  Police officers exchange blows with EACC sleuths  DPP Haji on elections: We are preparing to deal with hate mongers  Military officers charged over KDF jobs scam  DPP: Review assault case against lawyer “On August 12, my husband was released, only to be re-arrested three days later by police after a Prisons officer identified him,” she said.  Daniel Njuguna was arrested for allegedly being in possession of bhang. [Courtesy]  According to her, the warder said Njuguna was to be transferred to Nakuru Prison but was missing from Makutano Police Station where he was being held.  She reported the matter to the Eldama Ravine sub-county police commander but no action was taken against the officer who allegedly took the cash.  Police spokesman Bruno Shioso told The Standard he was not aware of the incident but promised to established the facts.  Kimutai Kirui, a rights activist, claimed cases of police being involved in illegal activities were rampant. “It is sad police are now handling cases in a kangaroo court,” he claimed.  County police commander Robinson Ndiwa declined to comment. “I’ve handed it over to higher authorities. The police spokesperson can respond,” Ndiwa said.   KANU leaders hint that they will seek presidency in the 2017 general elections  Two people die following a heavy downpour in Marigat, Baringo County  Mwaka jana zaidi ya watu Hamsini waliuawa kinyama katika eneo la Nadome kutokana na vita baina ya ja By Julius Chepkwony | 48 minutes ago By Lucas Ngasike | 2 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 2 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 3 hours ago