Some of the fake currency recovered in an operation in Kileleshwa, Nairobi. [DCI]  Sleuths from the Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) have arrested three suspects in Nairobi’s Kileleshwa area, on suspicion of engaging in money laundering.  In a statement, DCI said it had launched an operation at Midea Apartment, after which they confiscated several fake local and international currency and a machine believed to be used in developing the fake notes.  The three; 54-year-old Abdulaziz Ibrahim Hassan, 34-year-old Dorcas Ntoya, and Arum Bob Busimbi (26 years), were arrested on Thursday, and are currently in police custody, awaiting arraignment.  The agency believes they are “part of a syndicate that is behind the rising cases of money laundering, commonly known as wash wash.”  Mombasa DCI boss, husband charged with gun and ammunition offences  Man kills brother in argument over three seater-couch  DCI: Senator Mithika Linturi trying to evade rape charges  IG Mutyambai speaks on 'wash wash' “In a Honda Fit owned by one of the suspects, detectives recovered three copies of a fake letter purportedly from Central Bank of Kenya, notifying receipt of Sh10 billion, two copies of United Nation invoices, a forged anti-money laundering clearance certificate, a packet of white powder labeled 'Best Quality Laundry Starch', a bottle containing a bluish substance, 45 USD notes in 100 denominations and 166 notes of Kenyan currency in Sh1000 denominations,” DCI said.  Police say that the caretaker of the apartment where the three were found is also in custody, for “vehemently obstructing the detectives from conducting the operation within the facility.”  The arrests come in the wake of an expose by controversial blogger Edgar Obare who claimed there are individuals who engage in ‘wash wash’.  On Monday, Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai said a team of detectives has been dispatched to deal with the rising cases of money laundering in Nairobi County.  Speaking during his #EngagetheIG forum, Mutyambai said the Serious Crimes Protection Unit (SCPU) from the DCI has begun hunting the suspects, adding that some have been arrested and arraigned.  “We have a unit under DCI that deals with serious crime and continues to arrest perpetrators,” he said.  The police boss was responding to concerns raised by the public and warned Kenyans against joining what he described as get-rich-quick schemes, saying it was illegal.   Finally Justice for Kwekwe's family after Court sets a date  Police officers convicted of killing 14 year old Kwekwe Mwandaza to know their fate on Monday  Two police men convicted of manslaughter By Josphat Thiong'o | 15 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 1 day ago By Saada Hassan | 2 days ago By James Wanzala | 3 days ago