Hollywood actress Lupita Nyong’o (pictured) was one of the best-dressed celebrities at the Met Gala, held in New York.  Traditionally held every first Monday of May, The Met Gala was this year held on Monday this week, the postponement caused by the vagaries of Covid-19.  The event, formally called The Costume Institute Gala or the Costume Institute Benefit, was held at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Costume Institute in New York City.  Lupita looked stunning in a full denim sparkling Versace dress. This was capped with luscious natural hair and De Beers diamonds. “It felt like a perfect theme — and there is nothing better than denim topped with diamonds,” her stylist Micaela Erlanger told InStyle.   Kenya records 12 Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours   Gigiri or Athi River? Tips on setting up a booming hotel  Mix and match of vaccines not country policy  Health ministry says Kenya will rely on one Covid vaccine This year’s theme was ‘American Independence’. Heavenly bodies and camp have been past themes that enjoyed their fair share of controversy.  Celebrities nailed their looks with Lupita, legendary supermodel Iman and Ciara topping the list of the best dressed. Controversial singer Lil Nas X once again made a statement and earned his title for being the guest with the most wardrobe changes.  Spousal support is the message Ciara put across on the red carpet, after dressing in her hubby’s Russell Wilson’s jersey number and super bowl ring in neon green.  Nicki Minaj did not make an appearance at the event as she had not yet been vaccinated, a requirement for one to attend the event.  “They want you to get vaccinated for the Met. If I get vaccinated it won’t be for the Met. It’ll be once I feel I’ve done enough research. I’m working on that now. In the meantime, my loves, be safe. Wear the mask with two strings that grips your head and face. Not that loose one,” tweeted Minaj.  Reality TV star Kim Kardashian always goes an extra mile when it comes to her fashion statement. While showing off her killer curves, the billionaire who is now the face of dark humour on Twitter, wore a head to toe black outfit that fully covered her face.  Rihanna and beau A$AP Rocky earned their title as the queen and king of the red carpet.  The Fenty Beauty CEO wore a dramatic black ruffle dress with a matching beanie while Rocky brought colour to the carpet in a patchwork, blanket-like ensemble.  Back home, we had our own comic version of the event now dubbed #metngara courtesy of KOT which mostly featured Twitter personalities.  Not ones to be left behind with all the hype and craze surrounding the long awaited event, KOT showed off their Photoshop skills which matched up with the actual photos from the main event.  pwambugu@standardmedia.co.ke      Ministry of Health receives 180,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine as a donation from Gov't of Greece  HEALTH WATCH: How Covid-19 misinformation worldwide has created panic by misleading masses  KEMRI makes a breakthrough in the fight against Covid-19 by developing a Virus Transport Media (VTM) By Kirsten Kanja | 2 days ago By Stevens Muendo | 4 days ago By Sammy Wambua | 4 days ago By Stevens Muendo | 5 days ago