Kirinyaga Governor Ann Waiguru. [Harun Wathari, Standard]  Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru says it’s too early to determine whether she will remain in Jubilee or cross over to Deputy President William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance (UDA) ahead of the 2022 General Election.  Speaking on Spice FM yesterday, Waiguru hinted that her decision to either stay or leave Jubilee will depend on “how the ground looks like.”  “I can’t say I would, I can’t say I will not,” she said.    Does BBI court blow put Ruto ahead of the pack? Not at all  Make public what you pay KRA from poultry farm, Tuju tells DP  At the headshrinkers  DP Ruto allies respond to Tuju’s hard-hitting statement Over the weekend, the governor accused the Government of intimidation through arrests and summons by state agencies. She argued that every time she received summons from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) it coincided with her remarks on political issues in the country.  “Last I said -“on BBI let me keep quiet a bit” immediately, EACC raided my office. Recently I said am “...introspecting on the political way forward” and again immediately I get EACC summons.” posted the governor on social media.  In November 2015, Waiguru who was then the Devolution Cabinet Secretary, was a key witness in investigations over the loss of Sh791 million NYS funds. She was interrogated by EACC officials and denied any wrongdoing in the scandal. Later the same month, she resigned as CS citing ill-health and doctor’s recommendation for lighter duties.   Governor Anne Waiguru exiting EACC offices July 22, 2020. [Edward Kiplimo,Standard]  Last year, the governor survived impeachment by Kirinyaga County Assembly after Senate found that the allegations leveled against her could not be substantiated.  The MCAs accused Waiguru of abuse of office and gross misconduct through claiming payments of Sh10.6 million for unofficial trips she never went for.  With the political landscape shifting as the elections draw closer, Waiguru’s future in politics will be informed by new formations and who Mt Kenya political causes will support for the presidency.  The first time governor is weighing her options even as she continues championing for the increased role of women in leadership.  “I’m listening very keenly to what the people want. Do they want me to run for the governance seat for the second term?” Posed the governor.  She won the Kirinyaga gubernatorial seat in 2017 through Jubilee Party. After the defeat of the Building Bridges Initiative, Waiguru and other Central leaders who gained political mileage from popularisng the push to amend the Constitution, have taken a backseat and are working how to consolidate Mt Kenya votes ahead of the elections.  Mt Kenya leaders are holding consultations over who they will back to articulate their issues in the next government.   CS Matiang'i hits again as Deputy President William Ruto fights back | PRESS REVIEW  Exploring the preparedness and the key timeliness of the IEBC to conduct the 2022 General Elections  Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao By Jacob Ngetich  | 14 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 20 hours ago By Jael Mboga and Winfrey Owino | 1 day ago By Winfrey Owino | 1 day ago