Judiciary building, June 4, 2021. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  A parliamentary committee has pitched tent in Western Kenya to investigate 15 government institutions that have been a subject of audit queries.  The main focus of the National Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee, however, is on the Judiciary where a number of dealings in a number of courts have raised eyebrows of the Auditor General’s office and parliament.  The group is also accompanied by experts from the Ministry of Finance as well as auditors from the office of the Auditor General’s office.  The development comes amid claims that the improvement of infrastructure of some of the courts could have led to the loss of millions of taxpayer’s money as well as misuse of donor funds.  Judiciary has no plans to raise legal fees paid to courts, says Chief Justice Koome  Martha Koome: Lack of staff at CJ’s office was my biggest shocker  Judiciary to receive additional 3,000 police officers – CJ Martha Koome  Fares drop after matatu operators carry to capacity There are also claims that some of the contractors who built some courts have been demanding pay despite not completing works appropriately.  Yesterday, members of the committee led by Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo told journalists that there are a number of queries in the Judiciary that they hope to find answers to.  According to Otiende, the completion of the construction of buildings in some of the court stations raises a lot of questions.  “Most of the courts were built by funds from World Bank. However, there are mixed results. Some courts have been done well while others were not well built,” said the legislator.  Among the courts that are on their radar include Nyamira, Kakamega, Oyugis and Siaya law courts that have been undergoing infrastructural uplifts. They will also visit three other courts.  In Siaya, the construction of a new Sh340 million building to house the High Court is in its final stages and is among the projects the group is keen on to monitor progress and establish how public funds were used.  In Kisumu, the children’s department is among entities within the department of social protection that the committee is seeking answers from in regards to a number of issues.  Yesterday, the group visited Kisumu Rehabilitation Home that has been a subject of audit queries for the last 12 years over failure by authorities to secure its title deed.  “It is our duty to ensure that anywhere public funds have been spent there is accountability and where it appears it is not well spent then we must hold specific officers accountable,” said the committee.  According to Otiende, the money that was spent to improve the infrastructure in some of the court stations does not mirror what is on the ground.  Some of the courts have already been opened and are serving the public and it remains to be seen whether the move by the parliamentary group will unearth more flaws in their upgrade.     Uhuru vs Judiciary: High Court deals the president another blow by quashing Uhuru's Executive order  Dr. Mukhisa Kituyi's take on the war between the Executive vs Judiciary & the troubled Mumias  War pitting the Executive and the Judiciary has escalated after the 2017 general elections By Dominic Omondi | 40 minutes ago By Titus Too and Lynn Kolongei | 40 minutes ago By Kamau Muthoni | 3 hours ago By Ted Malanda | 6 hours ago