Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) offices, Nairobi. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) is investigating Nairobi City County Assembly Service Board over promotion of 28 senior officers.  The anti-graft agency is probing alleged irregular promotion of staff between 2017 and 2020. The board is accused of undertaking the promotions in disregard of the law and due process.   This was stated in a September 22 letter by EACC, to assembly clerk. A brief seen by The Standard further indicated that the promotions were done without requisite budgetary provisions.  In 2019, the board reportedly did not make budgetary provisions or engage the Commission on Revenue Allocation to cater for the promotions.  EACC probes Elachi, assembly board over staff promotions  EACC raises alarm over fee hike crisis in schools  MPs in a spot for tabling reports with little impact  Power plays and politics: The toxic mix fuelling Kenya Power woes The document states that this strained the budget and led to suspension of critical services to allow the assembly to pay salaries, leading to the creation of pending bills amounting to Sh51 million by the end of the financial year, 2020/2021.  The board is also accused of discrimination and bias in conducting direct appointments “favouring contract employees related to the chairperson of the board as of 2019.” It also alleged that the board indiscriminately handled the internship programme.  “The Assembly had 18 interns as of May 2020, but the board abruptly and without cause terminated the services of all interns except a few. Later on, other interns who had been terminated were recalled and employed on contract. Additionally, some of these officers continued to earn salaries without contracts of employment,” stated the document.  EACC is asking to be furnished with documents to aid with the probe.   I stand by my affidavit,NYS scam suspect Josephine Kabura tells EACC over Waiguru dossier   British government helping Kenya recover Ksh. 525 million stashed in Jersey Island, EACC reveals  Badhii ya wakilishi wa wadi waleta mjadala ya kumn’gatua mamlakani gavana Issac Ruto By Jacinta Mutura | 1 day ago By Jacinta Mutura | 2 days ago By Anne Atieno | 2 days ago By James Wanzala | 2 days ago