Interior CS Dr Fred Matiang'i with Commissioner George Natembeya and Governor Nderitu Murithi at Ol-Moran. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Interior Cabinet Secretary Dr Fred Matiang'i is Saturday on a second-day visit to the volatile Ol Moran area in Laikipia West.  Matiang'i, who is accompanied by Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi, this morning held a high-level security meeting with Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya, DIG Noor Gabow and Rift Valley Regional Police Commander Fredrick Ochieng', on school reopening.  Sources privy to the deliberations intimated to The Standard that Matiang’i maintained that learning in, at least, five schools that were deserted over rising insecurity should resume Monday, September 13.    The Laikipia pain  Tackle root causes of Laikipia clashes once and for all  Crisis looms in Ol Moran as churches struggle to house displaced families  How Matiang’i plans to end Laikipia violence Police officers, said the source, were tasked with providing security to teachers and learners.  Two additional police stations are also set to be established in the newly created Kirima Sub-county in Laikipia West to enhance faster response from security agencies and tackle insecurity.  The team is currently supervising the distribution of much-needed food aid and construction materials from the state and the county governments of Laikipia and Nakuru to displaced families in the month-long conflict.  22 homes were razed by suspected bandits this week, according to Natembaya.  Several other houses were torched in Dam Samaki area, a few kilometres from Ol Moran township on Friday, September 10, as the operation to flush out suspected bandits entered day four.  At least 200 families are sheltering at St Mark Catholic Church and Deliverance Church in Ol Moran.   CS Fred Matiang'i says the Government is committed to addressing the insecurity in Laikipia County  Kamket Kizimbani: Mbunge wa Tiaty amekamatwa jana kuhusiana na mapigano eneo la Laikipia  Laikipia county Gov't enters into a lease agreement to enable it scale-up infrastructure development By Edward Buri | 5 hours ago By Daniel Wesangula  | 5 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 13 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 14 hours ago