Level 2 Ngomongo hospital in Ruaraka. [David Gichuru,Standard]  Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and Health Cabinet Secretary Muthai Kagwe on Thursday opened three health facilities in Kamulu, Ngomongo and Zimmerman in Nairobi County.  Matiang’i, who led a team of senior government officials and about ten Jubilee MPs, was also accompanied by  Nairobi Metropolitan Services director Mohammed Badi.  The entourage first stopped at Kamulu area where a Level Three hospital funded by NMS was launched.  It is the first of such kind along Kangundo Road after Mama Lucy Kibaki hospital.  MCAs want City Hall to build drug rehab centres  City Hall misses revenue target by Sh6.6b despite KRA takeover  Battle between Nairobi city authorities and hawkers dates back to the 40s  'Broke' Sonko wants court to give him back Sh15m paid as cash bail  “So far, we have opened 14 hospitals within the city and the remaining 10 will be completed in a month’s time so that people can easily access medical services near to them,” said  Badi.  Kagwe said it was a presidential directive that the facilities be opened not only to take services next to the people but also improve their lives through treatment.  “People will be vaccinated in these facilities and it is our duty to assist the elderly to come and get vaccinated against Covid-19,” Kagwe said.  “If that happens, we will quickly move forward and even remove the curfews. As you have seen majority of those hospitalised now have not received the jab.”  Dr Matiang’i said since President Kenyatta took over, the government has achieved a lot with the hospitals being part of Big Four Agenda.  After Kamulu, the leaders proceeded to Ngomomgo in Kasarani where a Level 2 hospital was launched.  They then went to inspect another one in Kariobangi area and launched a Level 2 in Zimmerman area.  Some politicians who accompanied them addressed the residents, stating that the Handshake of President Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga was bearing visible fruits.  Matiang’i also lauded the president saying that apart from the launch, the government will complete the remaining projects, among them installing security lights and roads as part of Big Four Agenda promises.  The politicians who accompanied the two Cabinet Secretaries included Roysambu MP Ndirangu Waihenya, Kasarani MP Mercy Gakuya, Nyeri town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu and Anne Wanjiku of Gatundu North.    NMS carry out another trial run at the Green Park bus terminus to assess the level of preparedness  Serikali ya kaunti ya Nairobi yawasimamisha kazi wafanyakazi 5 kwa kusanya hongo  Accord to fight climate change drafted in Paris France By Mireri Junior | 22 hours ago By Pkemoi Ng’enoh | 1 day ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 1 day ago By Brian Okoth and Kamore Maina | 1 day ago