The case will also be mentioned on September 12. [Courtesy]  Mombasa County DCI boss Bridget Wanjiku Kamau has been charged with allowing her official firearm to be used to commit crime.  Wanjiku, who appeared before Milimani Chief Magistrate Francis Andayi today was accused of committing the offence at Yaya along Kilimani Ring Road in Nairobi on August 17.  The officer was accused of allowing her revolver S/No.KE KP 36338, which was lawfully issued to her, to be used in suspected criminal activities.  She denied the charge and was released on a bond of Sh300,000 or an alternative a cash bail of Sh100,000.  Nairobi: DCI arrests three suspects linked to money-laundering scheme  Doshi couple wants Joho declared unfit to hold public office  Man kills brother in argument over three seater-couch  DCI: Senator Mithika Linturi trying to evade rape charges The case will be mentioned on September 12.  Meanwhile, Wanjiku's husband Geoffrey Maina was charged in the same court with unlawfully being in possession of two police handcuffs, seven rounds of ammunition and a police pocket phone.  The items, property of the National Police Service, are believed to have been stolen.  Maina also faced another charge:  That on an unknown date, time and place within the country, and with intent to deceive, forged a State House presidential delivery unit sticker and fitted it on the windscreen motor vehicle registration number KCH 88F, a Toyota V8 LandCruiser, claiming it was a genuine document issued by State House.  He was charged alongside two other suspects, Chris Musyoka and Lucia Wanjiku Mutungwa.  They faced other counts of transporting firearms, illegally being in possession of ammunition, handcuffs, concealment of a serial number of a firearm, preparation to commit a felony and forgery.    Musyoki and Lucia were separately charged with concealing the serial number of a Ceska pistol by erasing it.  The trio was released on a bond of Sh300,000 or pay a cash bail of Sh100,000 each.  The case will also be mentioned on September 12.   Wawaniaji wa nafasi ya Ugavana kaunti ya Mombasa kupitia chama cha ODM wajiandaa  Wakaazi wa Mombasa wahimizwa kufuata masharti ya kudhibiti korona | MBIU YA KTN ( Sehemu ya 2)  Wakenya kutoka kaunti ya Mombasa watoa hisia zao kuhusu bajeti ya 2021/2022 By Mireri Junior | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 7 hours ago By Joackim Bwana | 8 hours ago By Kennedy K Gachuhi | 11 hours ago