President Uhuru Kenyatta when he chided Deputy President Dr. William Ruto at Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi during the official launch of the Building Bridges on October 26, 2020. [Stafford Ondego, Standard  Deputy President William Ruto has today extended a hand of truce to his boss President Uhuru Kenyatta without any condition.  Ruto on Thursday said Kenyans gave them the mandate and it is upon them to use the responsibility to take the country forward.  Ruto spoke at his Karen home where he met with grass root leaders from Kandara.    Uhuru and his legacy  Mt Kenya leaders lay out unity plans, plot to lock out DP William Ruto  Bishops offer to help in mending division between Uhuru and Ruto  Ignoring experts in running of key sectors a recipe for disaster "I am ready, the bishops have said they want to put us together with the president, I am ready to do that in the morning without condition, because the president is my boss,” said Ruto.  His sentiments come a day after Catholic bishops hinted that concerned by the deteriorating relationship by the two leaders that did not augur well for the country and its prospects of peace, they were ready to spearhead talks to have the two mend fences.  The bishops said they were deeply concerned that if this open disagreement between the president and his deputy is taken up by their supporters, the trickledown effect it could generate across the country will be dire to even contemplate.  Bishop Martin Kivuva, the chair of Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops said they have been very close to the two and were doing talks behind the scene.   The truce for Ruto was not without a scathing attack on his perceived opponents whom he blamed for coming in between him and his boss spoiling their cordial relationship.  "You cannot come to squat at the government that you were never voted into, those who have brought bad blood should wait for their time to get into the government, let them go and look for power, but they will find us there," said Ruto.    Kandara MP Alice Wahome, Kimani Ichung'wah (Kikuyu), Jayne Kihara (Naivasha), Rahab Mukami (Nyeri Woman representative and Murang'a Senator Irungu Kangata and a host Members of the County Assembly were among the delegation.   In a previous Crossfire interview on KTN News, Ruto repeatedly repulsed invitations to discuss President Kenyatta’s conduct towards him, but still went hammer and tongs at him over underperformance of Big 4 Agenda, the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI), the crisis in the Judiciary and the state of Jubilee.   Former Majority Leader Aden Duale welcomed the reconciliation but said as leaders close to Ruto it did not mean that they were looking for an endorsement from the president.  "Those of us working with Ruto welcome the truce that he has offered to his boss, despite what happened, we still respect Uhuru but we are not attaching any condition of the president's endorsement like some who were looking for handshake so they will be endorsed," said Duale.  Dulae said Uhuru is retiring and Ruto is seeking mandate to succeed him and therefore there is no conflict between the two.   "The truce is welcomed, but it will not deter us from seeking to form an all-inclusive government next year, Uhuru is exiting and Ruto is seeking to take the helm, we will stay focused even as we make peace," he said.  Duale said as people of both Christian and Muslim faith, they believe in forgiveness and the unity of the country.   jngetich@standardmedia.co.ke   CS Matiang'i hits again as Deputy President William Ruto fights back | PRESS REVIEW  Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana  DP William Ruto has been stopped from travelling to Uganda where he was headed for a private visit By Grace Ng’ang’a | 9 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 20 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 20 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 20 hours ago