Tiaty MP William Kamket (centre) at Rift Valley Regional Criminal Investigations headquarters in Nakuru. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Tiaty Member of Parliament William Kamket is expected to appear in court this morning to face incitement charges.  He is currently being held at the Kaptembwo Police Station in Nakuru and will be presented in court any time now.  Kamket was arrested yesterday in Kabarnet, Baringo County, on suspicion of inciting violence in the deadly Laikipia clashes.  The prosecution will be seeking more time to allow for investigations into the charges.  Tiaty MP William Kamket to remain in police custody  Police seek 14-day detention for Tiaty MP William Kamket over Laikipia violence  Tiaty MP Kamket and former legislator Lempurkel arrested over Laikipia violence  Tiaty MP William Kamket faces incitement charges over Laikipia violence The lawmaker is facing among others a charge of incitement to violence and destruction of property.  He was Wednesday grilled for nearly an hour, and taken to the Nakuru Law Courts and later to the Nakuru Central Police Station, before being moved to Kaptembwo Police Station.  Baringo County Police Commander Robinson Ndiwa who led the operation claimed the perpetrators of violence are from Baringo County.  “Most illegal herders causing mayhem in Laikipia are from Baringo. They are employees of prominent people, including Kamket. The herders have been incited that they should not leave Laikipia,” Ndiwa said.  Former Laikipia North MP Mathew Lempurkel was also arrested yesterday at his Ongata Rongai home in Kajiado County.  Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya on Wednesday said they were looking for the ex-MP and two other politicians on suspicion of fueling banditry attacks in Laikipia County.  Lempurkel would later appear in court Wednesday afternoon.  Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai and Natembeya are in Laikipia leading an ongoing security operation in the area, now in its third day.  Eight people have been killed and scores displaced in the month-long violence.   Mahakama kuu yabatilisha uamuzi wa kumwondoa mamlakani Baringo William Kamket  Baringo county speaker William Kamket reinstated after he won a case that sought his suspension  Baringo county speaker William Kamket reinstated after ouster By Julius Chepkwony | 48 minutes ago By Lucas Ngasike | 2 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 2 hours ago By Yvonne Chepkwony | 3 hours ago