The deceased was a nursing student at KMTC, Kisii branch. [File, Standard]  Spurned, provoked and feeling betrayed, a First-Year student at KMTC, Kisii branch on Monday night stormed his girlfriend’s house unannounced, hoping to catch her cheating with another man.  True to his suspicion, he found his girlfriend in the arms of another man, neighbours said.  The seething student had, before storming into his lover’s rented house in Mwamosioma, Kitutu Central, heard her –  through the window – speaking with her alleged side-boyfriend.  The Kenya Medical Training College student and his girlfriend share a compound, though are living in separate houses.  The anger that prompted him to force his way into his partner’s house ended in a vicious fight that resulted in the death of the medical college student.  Neighbours told The Standard that they heard a commotion emanating from the young woman’s house a few minutes past 9pm, with clear indicators that a physical fight was ongoing.  By the time they were accessing the scene, the KMTC student was already dead.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! “We forcibly entered the house after hearing the young woman crying while calling for help,” Mary Kemunto, a neighbour, told The Standard.  Kemunto said they found the body of the woman’s lover hanging from a rope tied to the roof, “though parts of his feet were touching the ground”. The other man in the lady’s house had already escaped, neighbours said.  Police are investigating a possible murder concealed as suicide.  The KMTC student’s body was collected from the scene by Nyanchwa Police officers, who took it to Kisii County Teaching and Referral Hospital morgue for postmortem.  Mwamosioma Sub-Location Assistant Chief, Elijah Ong’era, confirmed the incident.  The Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) officer in Nyanchwa, who spoke to The Standard, said the deceased’s girlfriend and her alleged side-boyfriend have recorded statements.   By Robert Amalemba | 1 day ago By James Omoro | 2 days ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 2 days ago By Harold Odhiambo | 5 days ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements