Veteran editor and long-serving Nation columnist Philip Ochieng has died at the age of 82.  He died at Ombo Mission Hospital in Migori on Tuesday evening.  Ochieng’s daughter Lucie Adhiambo said her father succumbed to pneumonia and other complications associated with old age.  “It’s true he passed on an hour ago. He has been ailing from a series of illnesses including pneumonia,” a devastated and sobbing Lucie told The Standard on phone.  Ochieng was well known for his The Fifth Columnist and Language Clinic columns in Sunday Nation.  Working with Philip Ochieng, the master wordsmith and perfection freak  You must not die when ‘electrocuted’  Getting rid of inconsistency in writing  Style is about clarity, not pomposity He previously served as an editor for Nation Media Group and was once a columnist for The Standard.  Ochieng was also an established author who published several books including I Accuse the Press: An Insider's View of the Media and Politics in Africa in 1992 and The Kenyatta Succession which he co-wrote with Joseph Karimi.  The Kenyatta Succession exposed a plot by some Gema politicians to prevent Moi from succeeding the senior Kenyatta.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! He was a stickler for grammar and intellectual rigour in journalism. Some of the journalists who worked under him said, “He’d have shot you for using ‘can be able’ in a sentence.”  “To many, Philip Ochieng is that proud atheist and relentless social critic with an unmatched grasp of the English language in the region. To others, though, he is undoubtedly a media giant and a journalist of great repute. Having served in various capacities in the media industry, Ochieng has earned both praise and condemnation from not just his readers but also his employers, colleagues and the powers that be,” Liz Gitonga-Wanjohi wrote of the legendary journalist in his biography - The Fifth Columnist.  Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga mourned him for his remarkable penmanship and linguistic dexterity saying, “Through the power of the pen, Philip spoke to the most powerful and moved the society into action.”  Kenya has lost in the passing of Philip Ochieng, a veteran journalist and legendary columnist with an unmatched prowess of the English language.  Through the power of the pen, Philip spoke to the most powerful and moved the society into action. pic.twitter.com/sq5p7IgiJR — Raila Odinga (@RailaOdinga) April 27, 2021 His former colleagues remembered him as an accomplished, legendary journalist and author.  Kenya Editors Guild President Churchill Otieno and Kenya Union of Journalists secretary-general Eric Oduor were among those who paid tribute to the departed journalist.  Standard Group Editor-in-Chief Ochieng Rapuro said Ochieng was an exceptional member of the fourth estate and that he was “sharp, witty and deep.”  Ugandan journalist Charles Onyango-Obbo said: “Just learnt from Philip Ochieng’s daughter that the great man, veteran journalist, author, wordsmith, and pan-Africanist died an hour ago. May his soul Rest in Peace.”  Former NMG editor David Aduda mourned Ochieng as a “sharp mind and a great editor.”  Ochieng is among the late Tom Mboya airlift beneficiaries to study in the US.  Kenyans also took to social media to give their condolences and share memories of the late Philip Ochieng.  Oh no! Rest in peace Philip Ochieng. Former Sunday Nation columnist had died. He was my "work Dad" at my very first real job at Camerapix when I was barely out of school ???? pic.twitter.com/rd8JQwefJH — Carol Radull (@CarolRadull) April 27, 2021 Rest in peace Philip Ochieng. You trained me to love journalism when I was still at the university. You mentored many of us. You gave me two books; Kenyatta Succession and I Accuse the Press. You were an avid reader and loved good stories. Rest Mzee. pic.twitter.com/y363llIiNm — John Kamau (@johnKamau1) April 27, 2021 He always made me reach for a dictionary. Philip Ochieng, veteran editor, columnist Sunday Nation. Rest in peace. #Kenya — Sophie Ikenye (@sikenye) April 27, 2021 When some folks complained about his esoteric columns, Philip Ochieng told off the "average readers" as he called them. A provocateur, philosopher, raconteur, atheist, Kenya's thesaurus, top journalist. RIP. — Dickens Olewe (@DickensOlewe) April 27, 2021 Rest in peace Philip Ochieng'. You had to have a dictionary when reading his columns. A great writer and journalist. He will be missed for sure. — Billy Njoka (@billynjoka) April 27, 2021 The word master has dropped his pen and taken the last bow! Rest in Peace Philip Ochieng! — Silas Wafula (@SilasWaf) April 27, 2021 Additional reporting by Anne Atieno and Caleb Kingwara   Veteran Journalist Robin Njogu dies of COVID-19, he worked for Royal Media Services  Standard Group journalists scoop 5 awards in media Council awards  Newsroom: Kenya's Media Progress as we celebrate World Press Freedom Day 4th May 2016 By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago By Wambua Sammy | 3 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 5 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 5 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements