Three families in Likoni are desperately searching for their kin allegedly abducted by unknown people in the troubled Half London area.  Fauz Mohammed, 27, Ramadhan Omar, 23, and Brian Hamisi, 23, were separately picked from their houses in the wee hours of Thursday in a well-coordinated operation that left the families and residents in shock.  The families reported that a heavily armed group of 20 men arrived in the area in several cars and cordoned off the premises before taking the three away.  Combat gear  The families, who reported the matter at Shelly Beach Police Station yesterday, claimed the abductors were in full combat gear and used explosives to break into the houses.  Police pursue killer gang linked to Likoni attacks  Gang banned years ago returns to Likoni bridge   Likoni ferry commuters ordered to use new bridge  Stricken ferry to resume operations next week They all said the abductors identified themselves as police officers who were in a search operation.  Likoni police boss Jectone Opengo said they had launched investigations into the matter.   The police chief advised the families to avoid speculation and leave the matter to officers to establish the motive behind the alleged abductions.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Haki Africa, a Mombasa-based human rights lobby group, said the Thursday morning incident has brought to 10 the number of youth who have been taken away in a similar manner.  Close friends  “Anti-terrorism police unit has been at the centre of such cases. The three were close friends and they were tracked and picked at the same time,” said Haki Africa’s rapid response officer Mathias Shipeta.  Half London is adjacent to Dudus area in Likoni that hit the headlines two years ago following a house raid by anti-terrorism police officers where three suspected Al Shabaab members were fatally injured and a cache of weapons including explosives, firearms and over 2,000 ammunition seized.    The families said they had visited all the police stations to inquire about their kin in vain.    Mwili wa mtoto anayedaiwa kuuawa na mamaye lafukuliwa kufanyiwa uchunguzi Likoni  Fishermen affected by construction of SGR in Mombasa decry discrepancies in compensation  Likoni school closed down due to deplorable state By Joackim Bwana | 30 minutes ago By Philip Mwakio and Patrick Beja | 2 days ago By Weldon Kipkemoi | 3 days ago By Bernard Onyari | 5 days ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements