This year's Madaraka Day celebrations will be held at the newly built Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium in Kisumu on June 1, the government has announced.  A high-level team of government officials led by Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho visited the Sh350 million facility on Thursday to assess its ability to host the celebrations to commemorate the day the country attained internal self-rule.  Kibicho who is the National Celebrations Committee chairman said, ''We will hold the celebrations at the stadium for a few, but we have also identified a number of areas where people will gather to follow the celebrations virtually.''   This is the first time that Kisumu will host such national celebrations, which were traditionally in Nairobi until the Jubilee regime revised the trend to rotate the celebrations in counties.  ''We have so far lined up a number of entertainment activities to cheer up those who will attend the historical celebrations,” the PS said.  Matiang'i, Kibicho, in trouble with MPs over sittings  No need to buy teargas –Kibicho  Kibicho: Is he Deep state or politicians’ punching bag?  Government to distribute 10m copies of BBI report, Kibicho says Hosting of the celebrations in Kisumu is not only set to increase the fortunes of hoteliers and traders but would also create a sense of national pride to the residents of lakeside city.  The celebrations are expected to boost the number of domestic visitors and also increase business for small traders and the transport sector.  ''We want people to attend the event if not by physical presence but also virtually because the State will unveil some good news to the residents and the people of Kenya,'' the PS said.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! In keeping with the Covid-19 norm, those invited to attend physically will be expected to wear masks, sanitize and keep social distancing.  kotieno@standardmedia.co.ke       Peter Munya awaongoza magavana wenzake kumfariji rais mustaafu Mwai Kibaki  Shughuli ya kuandikisha vitambulisho yazinduliwa katika mtaa wa Dandora  Dkt Karanja Kibicho awaonya machifu wawili kuhusu pombe haramu By Josphat Thiong'o | 1 hour ago By Jael Mboga | 1 hour ago By Benard Sanga and Philip Mwakio | 3 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 3 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements