A parliamentary committee has approved the nomination of Prof Fatuma Chege as Principal Secretary for State Department for Implementation of Curriculum Reforms.  National Assembly Education committee tabled the report approving Ms Chege's nomination during the morning session of the special sitting, yesterday.  The committee chaired by Busia Woman Rep Florence Mutua further approved the nomination of Jamleck Muturi as chairperson of the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) and Timon Oyucho as a member.  “Taking into consideration the findings of the committee, this House approves Jamleck Muturi (TSC chair) and Timon Oyucho a member of the Commission,” said Ms Mutua.  The House is set to debate the approval reports before the nominees can be formally appointed to the positions by President Uhuru Kenyatta. MPs can either adopt or reject the reports.  How the 8-4-4 system has been a thorn in the flesh since its inception  Question of trust raised in teacher-driven CBC exams  Ministry now focusses on next step in rollout of CBC  Better infrastructure, course revision and staffing headline varsity reforms Chege, who is Kenyatta University Deputy Vice-Chancellor in charge of Administration, was the chairperson of the Competency-Based Curriculum (CBC) task force that gave the road map for the 2-6-3-3-3 education system.  She is a professor of Education, Department of Educational Foundations, at the university. The don will supervise the scrapping of 8-4-4 education system.  Chege will team up with top CBC technical persons to spearhead execution of education reforms.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! The President also appointed former Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development chairperson Sarah Ruto as Chief Administrative Secretary in the Ministry of Education.         Tathmini ya CBC: Jacqueline Onyango aangazia mfumo mpya wa elimu, CBC (Sehemu ya Pili)  Tathmini ya CBC: Mfumo mpya wa elimu unakusudia kubadilisha kabisa masomo nchini Kenya  Supreme court judges keep off race to replace CJ Maraga, change in education system | Week in Review By Josphat Thiong'o | 1 hour ago By Jael Mboga | 1 hour ago By Benard Sanga and Philip Mwakio | 3 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 3 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements