The appetite for double leasing of wheat farms by landowners in Narok County is now a security threat.  Narok County Commissioner Evans Achoki said there have been many reported cases of farmers being duped into leasing land that has already been leased by others. It is a situation that has led to some disgruntled farmers using chemicals to carry out what security officers suspect to be revenge on those who have already planted wheat on the pieces of land.  The concern comes days after 20 acres under wheat was destroyed by an enraged farmer who sprayed some herbicides on the crop planted by another farmer. He is alleged to have taken the action after realising that another farmer had taken over the land despite him paying the lease in full.  “Since the beginning of this year, my office has received over 100 cases of double land leasing by some rogue landowners. These cases are posing a security threat,” said Achoki.  Recently, Stephen Mosinko and Elizabeth Mwangi were involved in a dispute over a 15-acre parcel, which both claimed to have leased. Mosinko had reportedly leased 75 acres from Lesiamon Kedoki last October, and had paid Sh450,000. He tilled and planted wheat on the land but was shocked to find out that 15 acres had been claimed by another farmer.  Insurance firm battling a land grab case with a city lawyer  Judge fights to reclaim land he had for 10 years  Judge refers to mediation a 30-year-old property case pitting siblings  Public land: Separating the facts from common myths It was later established that Brian Kedoki, Lesiamon's son, owned 10 acres of what Mosinko had leased, and had an agreement with Ms Mwangi, thus creating conflict.  Achoki appealed to those seeking to lease land to carry out due diligence to avoid being conned.     Take a quick survey and help us improve our website!  Narok County Assembly and Kakamega County Assembly unanimously pass the BBI bill  DEVELOPING NEWS: Official Vehicle belonging to Kisii deputy governor reportedly set ablaze in Narok  Cost of bread goes up by Ksh. 5 as wheat prices rise By Antony Gitonga | 6 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 7 hours ago By Edward Kosut | 10 hours ago By Yvonne Chepkwony | 11 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements