Police in Homa Bay are holding a 32-year-old clinical officer on suspicion of drugging and raping a female patient at a private hospital in the town.  According to police reports, the medic allegedly raped a 33-year-old woman inside the health facility on Tuesday.   Homa Bay County Police Commander Esther Seroney while confirming the arrest said they apprehended the suspect after medical reports revealed she was raped.  "Medical examinations at the facility confirmed that she was indeed raped, and that is why we arrested the suspect," said.   Court defers murder charge against Velvine Nungari's prime suspect  EXCLUSIVE: Ronaldo rape accuser demands Sh8 billion in damages  Father who defiled, impregnated daughter loses bid to overturn 30 years’ jail term  Minors arrested at sex party released The woman had been admitted at the health facility with chest pain when the medic pounced on her at midnight and committed the offence.  “The medic went to the patient’s room after midnight to attend to her only to inject her with a sedative drug before raping her.”  The clinical officer is reported to have dragged his victim to an isolation room and raped her after injecting her with a sedative drug.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! The woman, a mother of four, regained her senses at 2 am on Wednesday only to find the clinician sleeping beside her in the same bed.  The woman went for medical checkups on Wednesday having woken up with severe pain in her private parts before reporting the matter to the police.  When asked, the woman could only recall the time the clinician went to inject her with the drug and when she found him sleeping beside her.   Dr. Amolo who was stabbed by his son passes on  Hearing of case of survivors of 2007/8 PEV against government postponed to 14th of April 2016  Hundreds of women and girls raped during 2007- 2008 post-election violence in Kenya, report shows By Kevine Omollo  | 27 minutes ago By Eric Abuga | 2 days ago By Robert Amalemba | 2 days ago By James Omoro | 3 days ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements