Rongai residents hold peaceful protests on a disputed 26-acre piece of land in the Kampi Ya Moto Settlement Scheme on April 26, 2021. [Kennedy Gachuhi, Standard].  Residents of Kampi Ya Moto in Rongai, Nakuru County, have called on the government to expedite the recovery of public land they said has been grabbed by a private investor.  They said that the 26 acres had been set aside for a school, market, cattle dip, social hall and offices for national government administrators.   One of the residents, Erick Kimani blamed the alleged grabbing of the land on delays by the government to put it to the intended use.  "We are perturbed by the behaviour of the investor who, for over ten years, has been farming on the land. He fenced it off recently and claimed he bought it from the government," said Kimani.   Widow, son land row referred to arbitration  Family awarded 4.1m for girl's killing by officer 13 years ago  Nakuru man accused of stabbing wife to death arrested  MP wants frequent jumbo attacks halted Residents dismissed the claims the government had sold the piece of land. "There has never been a public participation meeting to change user for the land," said Kimani.  Reuben Kiprotich said residents were angered after the investor allegedly blocked a key road.  "The main road separates the investor's land from the public land. In total disregard of how we access our homes, the investor has blocked the main road and made it part of his farm. We now have to take long routes around his expansive land," said Kiprotich.   Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! The Standard has established the National Lands Commission (NLC) has handed the dispute to the Directorate of Settlement Schemes.   Frank Kibelakenya, the Nakuru NLC secretary said they took the decision due to rising tensions which has seen the residents hold a series of protests.   "The matter was recently brought to my attention. The land in question is under a settlement scheme. I have handed over the case to the Directorate of Settlements for action," said Kibelakenya.   “We are ready to fight for this land to the end to ensure it remains public land," said Bernard Nderitu, another resident. "We will hold a bigger protest in three weeks and ensure the people responsible are are smoked out."  The residents said they have given NLC 21 days to settle the dispute over the ownership of the land.   Parliamentary commitee blames NLC and chief registrar for allegedly fueling land conflicts  Kajiado MCAs accused of crippling development projects for political gain  Rongai rocket man aiming to build Kenya’s first locally-made rocket By Daniel Chege | 11 hours ago By Peterson Githaiga | 13 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 19 hours ago By Nikko Tanui | 1 day ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements