Residents of Madala Village in Shinyalu, Kakamega County on Monday woke up to a shocking incident in which a 46-year-old man allegedly killed his wife and stayed with her body inside their house for five days.    Neighbours claim they last saw the 35-year-old woman, Virginia Khavakali, on Monday last week.  A week later – Monday, April 26 – she was found dead inside her matrimonial house, with multiple stab wounds and her body partially burnt with a corrosive substance, police said.  Her husband, Wycliffe Khamasi, was lying unconscious a few meters from her body.  According to police, Khamasi took a lot of alcohol after the incident.  Neighbours claim Khamasi and Khavakali’s marriage was marred by domestic violence, which, on several occasions, resulted in serious injuries.  “There was a time he cut off her fingers following a domestic dispute,” a neighbour said.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! The resident’s allegation was confirmed by Khamasi’s sister, Penina Khatunyi.  “After he cut off her fingers a few months ago, I warned my brother against assaulting his wife,” Khatunyi told The Standard.  “I’m now shocked to learn he has killed her.”  Neighbours broke down Khamasi’s door on Monday evening, April 26 after noticing a foul smell emanating from the 46-year-old man’s house.  Khavakali’s body was taken to Kakamega Funeral Parlour, whereas Khamasi was stabilised and taken to Shinyalu Police Station, where he is being detained.  Confirming Khavakali’s murder, Shinyalu Sub-County OCPD Robert Makau said Khamasi will be arraigned once investigations are concluded.  Police say preliminary examination suggests Khavakali was killed nearly five days ago.  A background analysis on the nature of relationship between the suspect and the deceased indicates they were not legally married.  Khamasi had reportedly inherited Khavakali, a mother of two, after her former spouse died two years ago.   By Brian Kisanji | 1 day ago By Robert Amalemba | 1 day ago By Simon Oyeng’ | 1 day ago By Nathan Ochunge | 2 days ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements