People Empowerment Party candidate in the upcoming Juja Constituency by-election George Koimburi was on Monday charged with using fake academic certificates to be cleared for the contest.  Appearing before Kiambu Chief Magistrate Patriciah Gichohi in a virtual session, Koimburi denied three counts of forgery and was ordered to pay Sh100,000 cash bail.  On April 14, the court issued a warrant of arrest against Koimburi, who is seeking the parliamentary seat in the May 18 by-election, after he failed to honour court summons.  The Officer Commanding Station Kiambu was ordered by the trial magistrate to arrest and produce Koimburi in court.  He was charged that on dates between November and December 1994, he forged a Kenya National Examination Council (Knec) certificate.  Nyokabi murder suspect ‘attempted suicide’  Calls for justice as Juja murder victim buried  Murder suspect remanded for 14 days at Juja Police Station  Mud thwarts man’s attempt to dump lover’s body He was also accused that between September 2011 and April 2012, with intent to deceive, he forged a Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (Jkuat) certificate of participation.  Further, he denied that between 2011 and 2012, he forged a Jkuat academic excellence certificate.  The court was told that Koimburi presented the alleged forged papers to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) for clearance to run for the seat.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! The DCI was invited to probe the matter after Knec and Jkuat separately wrote  informing them the presented documents were not genuine.  “A candidate by the name of Ndungu George Koimburi did not register nor sit the year 1994 KCSE examination at the Ekalakala Secondary School under index 62001/013,” said part of a letter signed by Knec acting CEO Mercy Karogo filed in court.  She said in the letter to the DCI dated April 12 that the purported copy of 1994 KCSE examination certificate presented to KNEC for authentication was not genuine.  Jkuat Registrar of Academic Affairs Dr Esther Muoria said in a letter dated March 22 there were no records showing Koimburi received the papers from the institution.  The case will be mentioned on May 10.         "Unaweza kuwa kiongozi na utendee watu wako," President Uhuru pays his tribute to the late Juja MP  R.I.P Wakapee: Uhuru among the dignitaries who will lead Kenyans in attending the burial of Juja MP  Juja MP ‘Wakapee’ dies after a long battle with brain cancer, Francis Waititu passed on late Monday By Brian Otieno | 2 hours ago By Hassan Barisa | 3 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 5 hours ago By Patrick Vidija and Jacob Ng'etich | 6 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements