The four went missing in unclear circumstances on April 19, 2021, in Kitengela, Kajiado County. [Courtesy]  One of the four men who went missing in Kitengela, Kajiado County on April 19 has been found dead.  The body of Elijah Obuong, 35, was retrieved from Mathioya River in Murang’a County stashed in a sack.  The deceased’s brother told The Standard that records indicate Obuong’s body was moved to Murang’a County Referral Hospital morgue on April 20, a day after he had gone missing.  “It is unclear who booked in the body at the facility,” he said.  Slain Kitengela Four man linked to criminal gang  The condition of Obuong’s body was unclear.  A postmortem examination is scheduled for later Thursday.  Obuong was among his three friends who have been missing for more than a week now.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Obuong, Benjamin Amache Imbai (30), Brian Oduor (36) and Jack Anyango Ochieng (37), went missing on April 19, 2021.  The four arrived at Club Enkare in the afternoon, ordered a few drinks and were last seen leaving the entertainment joint at 3pm towards the facility’s parking bay, where they had left their vehicle; a white Toyota Mark X of registration plate KCQ 715C.  Their subsequent movements were not captured on tape, as Club Enkare had not installed CCTV cameras at the time.  After days of being unreachable on phone, the missing persons’ respective family members filed distress reports.  Police, thereafter, visited Enkare Club and found the men’s vehicle still at the parking lot.  Isinya Sub-County Police Commander, Anderson Njagi, told The Standard that a probe into the four men’s disappearances has been escalated to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) Headquarters.  “We don’t have so much to reveal about the men yet,” he said.  Njaagi said preliminary investigations indicated the four were in transit from Nairobi when they decided to stop over for refreshments at Enkare Club.  The Isinya police chief said the missing friends’ vehicle was towed to the Kitengela Police Station, where it would be subjected to forensic analysis.  A day before Obuong's body was found, detectives investigating the matter had indicated the four were blocked by two Toyota Prado vehicles as they left the restaurant.  According to the detectives, the unknown abductors lay in wait for the four as they had lunch at the restaurant and pounced on them once they stepped out of the eatery.     By Josphat Thiong'o | 1 hour ago By Jael Mboga | 1 hour ago By Benard Sanga and Philip Mwakio | 3 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 3 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements