The process to compensate fishermen affected by the construction of the Lamu Port Sh1.76 billion has started after a long wait.  Fishermen will soon start receiving the money set aside for their compensation once the exercise is complete.  A multi-agency team led by the Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) held the first consultative meeting at the Lamu County Commissioner's office in Mokowe on Monday and resolved to speed up the compensation process.  This emerged even as KPA raced against time to clear with the 4,734 fishermen before operations of Lamu Port start.  The fishermen have been demanding compensation for lost fishing grounds during the construction of the first three berths as well as dredging works.  KPA to pay fishermen Sh1.76b over Lamu Port project  Cargo handling equipment dispatched to Lamu port  Pollution making life unbearable for Kisumu fishermen  Lamu Port comes of age: Mega project to start operations in a month Benard Osero, the KPA head of corporate affairs told The Standard in a telephone interview that they have initiated dialogue with the fishing folk through Beach Management Units (BMUs).  He said this was in a bid to get the accurate number and data of the affected fishermen before they can start disbursing the funds.  According to Osero, KPA intended to clear up with the compensation of the fishermen who are the port's immediate stakeholders before opening of the new facility.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! ''We rolling out the entire programme and working closely with all the concerned parties to ensure that we leave no one out,'' Osero said.   Somo Mbwana, the chair of the Lamu County BMU Network, said they were happy with the meeting yesterday.  "In 2016, we went to court to seek compensation after the project implementers took over the fishing ground. At that time, we were 4,734. But in 2019, the number had shot up to 6,000," he said.  Mbwana noted that they moved to court together with Save Lamu and were awarded Sh1.76 billion.  He said they are working closely with KPA and Lamu Port-Southern Sudan-Ethiopia Transport Corridor (Lapsset) to verify the list of affected fishermen before compensation.      Nyatike Weed Menace: Fishermen suffering massive losses due to weed engulfing Lake Victoria beaches  Fishermen affected by construction of SGR in Mombasa decry discrepancies in compensation  Kenyan fishermen at Lake Victoria face unmerited harassment by Ugandan security officers By Dominic Omondi | 5 hours ago By Fredrick Obura | 7 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 9 hours ago By PSCU | 14 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements