Water CS Sicily Kariuki.  A rift has emerged between Water Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki and the National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority (NWHSA) board over the extension of the acting Chief Executive Officer's term, which ends today.  The board meets this morning to decide the fate of acting CEO Sharon Obonyo, whose term ended at midnight yesterday after serving two acting terms of six months each.  A letter, ref NWHSA/CLS/BOD/FIL/01/VOL11/(78) by Obonyo and seen by The Standard, dated April 26 invites the full board for a meeting at 11am to deliberate on the position and that of acting general managers.  "Granting the authority to go ahead to convene a special full board meeting, the purpose of this letter is to invite you for the board meeting on Wednesday at 11am at the Authority's boardroom," reads Obonyo's letter to board chairman Eric Okeyo, Principal Secretary (PS) Water, Treasury, Lands and the board members.  Water CS Sicily Kariuki sued over board appointment  CS Kariuki in a spot for spending Sh2 million on toilets and catering  World Bank gives Sh72m grant for water supply  Water CS Sicily Kariuki’s daughter is dead The letter is also copied to Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai to facilitate ease of travel into the disease zoned counties.  Obonyo was appointed acting CEO on April 28 last year after the substantive boss Eng Geoffrey Sang left in a dramatic move following a special meeting held via Zoom.  A source charged with developing and managing national water infrastructure for enhancing water security, flood mitigation and water storage for multipurpose use, said there was a deep rift between board directors and the acting CEO over the running of the institution.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! The strained relationship between the acting CEO and the board of directors led by Okeyo has affected operations at the water agency.  Other sources have revealed that the board had resolved to send the acting CEO home today.  "The acting CEO has been ignoring decisions and resolutions made by the board and instead referring the matters to CS Sicily Kariuki. Obonyo has repeatedly said she is only answerable to the CS and not the board. The bad blood between the board and the CEO has affected the delivery of services," the source added.  Obonyo's tenure has since expired and sources reveal that she has been pushing for an extension.  The source further said the frosty relationship was aggravated by her move to send directors to visit Chemasusu Dam in Baringo County which is no longer under NWHSA. The said dam is under the Central Rift Valley Water Works Development Agency.   Sicily Kariuki grilled by Public Investment Comittee over youth funds  Public service CS Sicily Kariuki refutes claims that the ministry has lost 400 million Shillings  Public Service CS Sicily Kariuki dismisses CORD’s claims of parallel registration to rig elections By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago By Wambua Sammy | 3 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 5 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 5 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements