With the conviction of former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin in the murder of George Floyd on Tuesday, prosecutors will begin turning their attention to making their case against three others who took part in the arrest that claimed a life.  Tou Thao, J. Alexander Kueng and Thomas Lane, all of whom were fired and arrested days after Floyd died last May, face charges at a trial on August 23 that they aided and abetted second-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter of Floyd.  Aiding and abetting murder is punishable by up to 40 years in prison, although sentencing guidelines can reduce the maximum to 15 years.  The following is a summary of Minnesota prosecutors' allegations against each of the men, all of whom are free on $750,000 bail:  Muluka: Hatred of certain people must not be in our space  After milestone police verdict, Minneapolis lays to rest another Black man  Minneapolis police face US bias probe after Floyd murder verdict  Biden calls Chauvin verdict a 'giant step' toward justice in the United States ALEXANDER KUENG, 27  Kueng and Lane were the first officers to arrive outside the food store where Floyd was accused of passing a counterfeit $20 bill to buy cigarettes. Kueng had graduated from the police academy in 2019 and started as an officer in December.  During the fatal encounter, prosecutors said Kueng was between Chauvin and Lane, kneeling on Floyd’s back, with his hand on Floyd’s handcuffed left wrist.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! After Floyd became unresponsive, it was Kueng who checked the right wrist for a pulse and said, "I couldn't find one," prosecutors said in their complaint. None of the officers moved from their positions, the complaint said.  THOMAS LANE, 38  Having arrived at the scene with Kueng, it was Lane who ordered Floyd out of his car and handcuffed him, prosecutors said. He had been on the police force for only a matter of days.  Chauvin, Kueng and Lane each used their weight to restrain Floyd on the ground after he baulked at getting into the back of a squad car. Lane was positioned on his legs, "kneeling on them and pressing them down with his hands," according to the complaint.  At one point, Lane asked, "Should we roll him on his side?" Chauvin responded: "No, staying put where we got him." Lane then said, "I am worried about excited delirium or whatever," to which Chauvin said, "That's why we have him on his stomach.  TOU THAO, 35  Thao, who had rejoined the force in 2012 after losing his job to layoffs as a rookie in 2009, arrived on the scene with Chauvin after Floyd had already been handcuffed.  Although Thao was the only one of the four officers who were not in physical contact with Floyd, prosecutors said he had a direct look at how Chauvin and the others were restraining him.  Thao stood to watch over the onlookers who were gathering at the scene, keeping himself positioned between them and the three other officers who were on Floyd's prone body.  When a bystander stepped off the curb, “imploring Chauvin to get off of Mr Floyd, (Thao) put his hands on the citizen to keep him back,” the complaint said.     Democratic presidential front-runner Hillary Clinton outlines plan to defeat ISIS  George Floyd's death | Hot Topics  Democratic presidential front-runner Hillary Clinton outlines plan to defeat ISIS By Reuters | 10 hours ago By The Standard | 12 hours ago By Standard Reporter | 12 hours ago By Reuters | 12 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements