Thirty-six minors arrested at an alcohol and sex party in Rachuonyo East Sub-county have been released.  The minors comprising eight girls and 28 boys who just completed their national examinations were arrested on Saturday night in a house at Koweo Village in Kojwach Kawere sub-location.  The teenagers are aged between 12 and 17.  They were arrested by Kojwach Kawere assistant chief Isaiah Ondoro and his Kojwach Kamyoro counterpart Fredrick Okeyo and were handed over to police at Ringa Police Station for interrogation.  “The children have been released and we don’t expect them to repeat what they did,” Mwanzi said.  Kenya Pipeline sip National Alcohol to maintain winning start at Clubs Championship  More doctors turn to abuse of alcohol, survey shows  Homa Bay gangsters take advantage of curfew   Homa Bay residents lament month-long power outage  The children are said to have been playing loud music and dancing at the party.  The teenagers were also found in possession of two packets of unused condoms and there were several alcohol bottles in the house.  Homa Bay is one of the counties with a high number of teenage pregnancies. It is ranked second after Narok County.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! According to Homa Bay and Rangwe sub-counties Children’s Officer Joseph Otieno said birthday parties and other celebrations have become places where girls are impregnated.  Otieno told parents to be wary of their children who attend such parties to reduce cases of teen pregnancies.  “Many birthday parties and other celebrations which children attend create loopholes for sex pets to violate their sexual rights. Let parents take charge of their children,” Otieno said.     Angeline Cikanda talks on hundreds of students likely to miss exams due to early teen pregnancies  Dr. Amolo who was stabbed by his son passes on  Mkusanyiko wa habari kutoka kaunti mbalimbali By Eric Abuga | 1 day ago By Robert Amalemba | 1 day ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 2 days ago By Harold Odhiambo | 5 days ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements