Motorists using the Naivasha-Mai Mahiu road were treated to a bizarre incident after a man rescued from an accident scene was crushed to death by another car as he waited to be taken to the hospital.  The middle-aged man died on the spot as the public who had rushed to the scene near Maili Mbili along the busy road scampered for safety during the incident on Wednesday.  During the mid-morning incident, two trailers both heading to Naivasha were involved in an accident in which the deceased suffered from leg injuries.  A witness James Mburu said that members of the public rushed to the scene where they managed to rescue the two drivers and their passengers from the wrecks.  He added only one person was injured in the accident while the rest managed to walk away as traffic built up around the scene.  State moves to combat illegal fishing at Lake Naivasha  Scores injured as licensed, illegal fishermen clash   Over 14,000 inmates released to decongest prisons  Lake Naivasha’s fury and damage call for urgent action on climate change “The injured man was taken from the scene and as he lay by the roadside, waiting to be taken to hospital, another truck swerved from the road and ended up running over him,” he said.  Naivasha OCPD Samuel Waweru said the body had been collected and taken to the local mortuary.  “We had an unfortunate incident where a man who survived an accident in a trailer he was riding in was run over by another truck as he waited to be rushed to hospital,” he said.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Meanwhile, there was drama at the Naivasha Law Courts after a suspect escaping from one of the courts ended up fracturing his leg after jumping over the wall.  The suspect identified as Moses Kimani had been convicted of manslaughter by the High Court when he decided to flee from the courts.  During the virtual proceedings, court orderlies and a police officer tried in vain to arrest the suspect  but failed.  A witness Samuel Mbuthia said that the suspect managed to scale down the court's stairs but found the gates to the law courts closed.  “He decided to jump over the wall but ended up fracturing one of his legs and police found him screaming in pain before taking him back to the holding cells,” he said.    Mwanamme ajaribu kujitoa uhai Naivasha, alikata koo kwa kigae cha chupa  Usafiri Naivasha: Imekuwa balaa kuingia na kutoka Naivasha baada ya barabara kukatika kwa wiki sasa  Bei ya samaki imepungua ziwa Naivasha kwa zaidi ya 50% kutokana na kufungwa kwa hoteli By Julius Chepkwony | 7 hours ago By Edward Kosut | 10 hours ago By Yvonne Chepkwony | 11 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 22 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements