A second body of the four men who went missing in Kitengela, Kajiado County on April 19 has been found in Thika Sub-County.  The body of Benjamin Imbai, 30, was retrieved from a thicket in Thika, Kiambu County and taken to General Kago Funeral Home.  Imbai’s family declined to speak to the media with police saying the body was moved to the morgue on April 20, a day after he and the other three went missing.  Earlier on, the body of Elijah Obuong', 35, was also retrieved from Mathioya River in Murang’a County stashed in a sack.  According to the deceased’s brother, Obuong’s body was also moved to Murang’a County Referral Hospital morgue on April 20.  Slain Kitengela Four man linked to criminal gang   One of missing Kitengela men found dead in Murang’a  Four men go missing at Kitengela nightclub  Court temporarily stops KRA from collecting minimum tax “It is unclear who booked in the body at the facility,” he said.  A postmortem examination is scheduled for later Thursday.  Imbai and Obuong’ were in the company of two other friends who have been missing for more than a week now.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Obuong', Imbai, Brian Oduor (36) and Jack Anyango Ochieng (37), went missing on April 19, 2021.  The four arrived at Club Enkare in the afternoon, ordered a few drinks and were last seen leaving the entertainment joint at 3pm towards the facility’s parking bay, where they had left their vehicle; a white Toyota Mark X of registration plate KCQ 715C.  Their subsequent movements were not captured on tape, as Club Enkare had not installed CCTV cameras.  After days of being unreachable on the phone, the missing persons’ respective family members filed distress reports.  Police, thereafter, visited Enkare Club and found the men’s vehicle still at the parking lot.  Isinya Sub-County Police Commander, Anderson Njagi, told The Standard that a probe into the four men’s disappearances has been escalated to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) Headquarters.  “We don’t have so much to reveal about the men yet,” he said.  Njaagi said preliminary investigations indicated the four were in transit from Nairobi when they stopped over for refreshments at Enkare Club.  The Isinya police chief said the missing friends’ vehicle was towed to the Kitengela Police Station, where it would be subjected to forensic analysis.   The Adventurer: Kitengela Hot Glass, the home of art   Boda Boda operators hold peaceful procession in Kitengela calling for peace ahead of 2017 elections  Mtu anayedaiwa kuwa mchungaji ambaka msichana mwenye akili taahira  By Josphat Thiong'o | 1 hour ago By Jael Mboga | 1 hour ago By Benard Sanga and Philip Mwakio | 3 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 3 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements