A section of a multi-million-shilling morgue gate collapsed on Sunday, claiming one life and injuring 10 others in Vihiga County.  The deceased was identified as Enock Ombasa, 31, from Kisii County. One of the survivors suffered a broken leg while nine others had minor injuries.  At least 38 workers were at the site when the gate collapsed at around 3 pm.  Moses Osoro, one of the workers said Ombasa, who was on top of the gate fell and was buried under the debris.  Vihiga County Police Commander Benjamin Ong’ombe said they will summon the contractor to shed light on what transpired. “We shall also record statements from all the witnesses and the workers who were at the scene at the time of the incident.”   The project was launched on February 24, this year by Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo and was aimed at decongesting the old morgue at Vihiga County Referral Hospital.  Part of morgue under construction collapses in Vihiga [Photos]  Vihiga Utd part ways with coach Yakhama  Will the dead bury themselves? Family grapples with 20m hospital bill  Body in morgue for 600 days in row over Sh2,700 The funeral parlour and the gate were being constructed concurrently at an estimated cost of Sh40 million.   The ultra-modern gate was to house an office for security guards, a canteen and a reception as per the design seen by The Standard.  There was also provision for entry and exit sections for motorists and pedestrians.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! When contacted, Governor Ottichilo was reluctant to divulge the actual amount of money allocated for the project. He also said he would not give details of the construction company.   County Secretary Ezekiel Marley, however, promised to give the details later yesterday. Locals are speculating that the gate could have collapsed as a result of poor workmanship. They have raised concerns over the suitability of the parlour given that both facilities were being put up by the same contractor.  They petitioned the National Construction Authority to probe the matter and bring the culprits to book.  Evans Idd, a resident, said locals must be assured of the safety of the morgue whose construction is underway.   “What if the storey building collapsed just like the gate? We would have lost many lives. We would want to know if proper procedures were followed in awarding the tender, whether the contractor used quality materials and if the contractor had the capacity to construct such a facility,” he said.  The locals now want the contractor to be held accountable and be compelled to compensate the deceased’s family and the injured. The county engineers could not be reached for comment over the quality of work done by the contractor.  “Ombasa died a very painful death. He was a polite man and has been under my care,” said Pamela Motondi, his aunt.  She said the family was poor and would require support from well-wishers to help them plan burial arrangements.   Nairobi among 4 more counties that have passed BBI bill as road to referendum gathers momentum  Familia moja Vihiga imetatizika baada ya serikali ya kaunti kuwazuia kumzika mpendwa wao  Maandamano yameshuhudiwa huko lari kufuatia kifo cha mwanafunzi mmoja wa darasa la 6 By Antony Gitonga | 6 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 7 hours ago By Edward Kosut | 10 hours ago By Yvonne Chepkwony | 11 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements