A 65-year-old man who had erected an electrical barrier to keep thieves at bay died after he was electrocuted when he touched live wire connected to a tank at his home in Shinyalu Sub-County.  The incident happened on Monday night when Alfred Shibele, a father of seven was guarding a water tank he bought recently and installed outside his house.  A power outage forced the deceased to stay out at his Shibuye village home and guard the tank because he feared that thieves would steal it.  Earlier, Shibele had erected an electric barrier around the home after thieves raided his home a couple of weeks ago and stole a water tank, a cow and many other goods.  John Bosco, the deceased's son said his father had complained a lot about thieves who used to give him sleepless nights.  Man kills wife, locks himself with body inside house for 5 days  Kenya Power on the spot after woman is electrocuted  Kakamega county orders probe into six 'mystery deaths'  Shinyalu locals suffer at the hand of rogue forest officers According to him, the father decided to erect the electric barrier to catch the thieves.  Bosco said his father was electrocuted by the same electric wire he mounted around the home in a strange twist of events.  "His intention to catch the thieves backfired as the live electricity wire running to the tank to keep off intruders killed him instead."  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! The deceased is reported to have touched the live electricity wire near the tank oblivious of the fact that electricity was flowing.  "He was not aware that the electricity had come back when he touched the wire and he died holding the wire where the tank is installed," said the son.  “I heard a strange sound like something bursting outside and when I went out to see what was happening, I found my father lying down, already dead while holding on to a naked electricity wire, the impact caused another blackout," said Bosco.  According to him, the home has witnessed many raids in the past.  "We have been living in fear of night raids by thieves and this has led to the death of my father, we urge authorities to intervene and beef up security in this area."  Villagers said they wonder how criminals raid homes at will at night during curfew hours when police are supposed to be conducting patrols.  Shinyalu Sub-County Police Commander Robert Makau confirmed the incident and warned locals to avoid tampering with electricity in the name of securing their homes.  "People must use proper methods of securing their homes without endangering their lives and that of others," said Makau.  “Let us not use shortcuts because what has just happened could have been avoided if the right thing was done."  He urged residents to engage Kenya Power and Lighting experts to fix electricity in their homes to avert accidents. The body was taken to Kakamega County General Hospital mortuary awaiting postmortem.  Police have launched investigations into the incident to establish the actual cause of death.   KDF soldiers laid to rest in Kakamega  Wanajeshi wawili walioshambuliwa Somalia wazikwa huko Kakamega  A suspected robber dies after electrocution in Ragati-Kieni, Nyeri County  By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago By Wambua Sammy | 3 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 5 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 5 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements