Deputy President William Ruto.  Mt Kenya region will benefit more economically should Deputy President William Ruto be elected President next year, Tanga Tanga MPs have said.  Speaking during a Mt Kenya parliamentary forum attended by more than 40 leaders in Limuru on Thursday, the politicians faulted the current administration for frustrating the region's economy.  This came as a different faction from the region denied there was a meeting where Central region politicians discussed negotiating with the DP. They said any leader interested in Mt Kenya support should do so through President Uhuru Kenyatta.  Several politicians from the region claim the weekend meetings planned by Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua’s group, which is allied to DP Ruto, to chart a negotiation strategy for the region were based on “individual gain”.  Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu on Tuesday said the leaders did not represent Mt Kenya region.  Hustler movement  But Meru Senator Mithika Linturi said a successful meeting took place last week, and that the leaders resolved to have open negotiations with the DP since he is the "right man to talk about matters that affect the common ma".  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! “We agreed to have the negotiations with Ruto whom a majority of our constituents identify with as their candidate of choice, and one whom they trust to carry their aspirations of economic recovery," Linturi said.  The senator added that although the region has been well represented in government it has also been hit by an unfair business environment.  “The accompanying pain by our people is that this has been so, despite the [fact that] the most powerful offices are held by men and women from our region," Linturi said.  He said Mt Kenya residents are languishing in poverty due to punitive administrative policies and are ready to talk with the DP on economic recovery.  “Many of our traders and business people have deliberately been driven into poverty through unprecedented highhandedness. Our people have never been this impoverished since pre-colonial Kenya,” Linturi said.  He went on, saying the new strategic plan will “re-engineer the model of engagement with other leaders, as we seek to restore our nation’s economy to the trajectory former President Mwai Kibaki left it at."  The leaders claimed that the business community has suffered and is ready for a discussion with Ruto.  The talks will revolve around job creation, enterprise development, and business support.  Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa said the team had to take the initiative of economic recovery and settle on a leader who would read from the same script [with the electorate].  “We want a candid engagement with the candidate on measures to create jobs for our people,” he said.  Ichungwa added: “We believe he will democratically lead the country, and our discussions will be far from elective positions and power.”   By Brian Otieno | 2 hours ago By Hassan Barisa | 3 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 5 hours ago By Patrick Vidija and Jacob Ng'etich | 6 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements