Two men have been arrested with game meat in Kajiado County.   David Mwololo Musyimi alias Kawaya, 57, and Mwendo Mumba, 26, were arrested on Wednesday at Ngama area in Mashuuru Sub-county.  A team of investigators acting on a tip-off, laid a trap in the bush and arrested the two while in possession of zebra and dik-dik meat weighing approximately 180kgs.  The third suspect, a boda boda rider escaped.  According to the police, the suspects are believed to be notorious and deadly poachers who have been involved in the business for more than 10 years. Police also recovered two knives and a machete from the suspects.  Police retrieve body of fisherman in Lake Turkana  43 ambulances on standby as ARC Equator Rally begins  Game on in Naivasha, please fasten your safety belts  Flamingos face death over changing water ''We are escorting them to Kajiado Police Station for booking, we will charge them tomorrow with the offence of dealing in bushmeat,'' said area Directorate of Criminal Infestations head Issack Meme.  The officer appealed to the the public to report poaching cases to the police.  ''I'm appealing to residents to report any incident of poaching, we should avoid feeding people with bush meat as it's a health hazard,'' said the county DCI boss.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Being a home to two national parks and several private wildlife sanctuaries, the poaching incidents have increased turning the county into a poacher’s haven.  The county’s location is said to work to the advantage of poachers, given that it borders Nairobi and also connects Tanzania through the Namanga border.  It’s believed that one can easily transport illegal items from the neighbouring country to the City without being noticed by the authorities since there are no police roadblocks.         Developing: Two KWS staffers die after plane crashed soon after take-off in Nanyuki  KWS aims to recruit 5,500 youths to help combat human-wildlife conflict  Nafasi kwa Ajira KWS: Vijana 80 kunufaika Taita Taveta katika zoezi la kuwaajiri vijana 5500 nchini By Julius Chepkwony | 7 hours ago By Nikko Tanui | 16 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 1 day ago By Julius Chepkwony | 1 day ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements