China is shoring up ties with autocratic partners like Russia and Iran, as well as economically dependent regional countries, while using sanctions and threats to try to fracture the alliances the United States is building against it.  Worryingly for Beijing, diplomats and analysts say, the Biden administration has got other democracies to toughen up to a rising, more globally assertive China on human rights and regional security issues like the disputed South China Sea.  “China has always resolutely opposed the US side engaging in bloc politics along ideological lines, and ganging up to form anti-China cliques,” the Chinese Foreign ministry said in a statement to Reuters.  “We hope relevant countries see clearly their own interests...and are not reduced to being anti-China tools of the US.”  After last month’s stormy talks between top US and Chinese diplomats in Anchorage, Beijing also appeared to engage more urgently with countries like Russia, Iran and North Korea, which are also on the wrong end of US-led sanctions.  18 Justice and Legal Affairs Committee members sign report on BBI Bill  What next for CJ nominee Martha Koome?  Out of the city, never to return  Tana River MCAs impeach Speaker Justin Nkaduda  “China is very worried about US alliance diplomacy,” said Li Mingjiang, associate professor at the S Rajaratnam School of International Studies in Singapore, pointing to what he calls attempts to “huddle for warmth” with governments shunned by the West.  Days after the Alaska meeting, the Chinese government’s top diplomat, State Councillor Wang Yi, received Russia’s foreign minister Sergei Lavrov, who called for Moscow and Beijing to push back against what he called the West’s ideological agenda.  Economic pact  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! A week later, Wang flew to Iran and signed a 25-year economic pact, which Renmin University professor Shi Yinhong said “effectively exposes every Chinese company participating to direct or indirect US sanctions.”  President Xi Jinping, meanwhile, exchanged messages with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, calling for a deeper partnership with another country whose ambitions for nuclear arms has drawn sanctions.  China is also wooing its economically dependent neighbours. Wang hosted foreign ministers from Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and South Korea in China’s southeastern Fujian province in recent weeks.  Li said Beijing will be holding out promises to help these countries revive their economies after the Covid-19 pandemic, making them think twice about siding with the United States.  After Philippines diplomats and generals accused China of sending militia-manned vessels into their waters, President Rodrigo Duterte said he was not going to let territorial disputes in the South China Sea get in the way of working with China on vaccines and economic recovery.  Biden has continued to pressure Beijing on many of the same issues the Trump administration did, but with a more alliance-focused strategy.  At a meeting between Biden and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga on Friday, the two countries presented a united front against China’s assertiveness, on issues ranging from the disputed East China Sea islands known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China, to rights issues in China’s Hong Kong and Xinjiang region.   Politicians breaking their backs to get young voters on their side ahead of 2022  BBI Confusion: Uncertainity over special sittings with Speaker Muturi yet to gazzette sittings  CAPTAINS OF INDUSTRY: Focus on Narendra Raval who is the founder of Devki Group of Companies By Reuters | 10 hours ago By The Standard | 12 hours ago By Standard Reporter | 12 hours ago By Reuters | 12 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements