Fridah Ndanu, 22, and a mother of one could not hide her joy as she received the keys to her new motorbike at the Standard Group’s headquarters in Nairobi.  Ndanu recently featured on KTN Leo’s Sunday special segment Mwanamke Ngangari, a programme that highlights women who have made a mark in the lives of others, or those giving their all to make ends meet.  Ndanu, who lives in Pipeline, Embakasi, wakes up every day before sunrise to sell bread on her bicycle.  She takes a matatu to Mukuru slums, where she picks the bicycle from her younger brother’s place to hawk bread in South B area.   The benefactor, a woman who did not wish to be named, said she was touched by Ndanu’s dedication.  Suspected motorbike thief survives mob justice  Suspected motorbike thief stoned, set on fire  Form Two boy dies in bodaboda ride  Teenage girl dies in boda boda funeral procession Accompanied by her uncle James Kitheka and sibling Kelvin Muthoka to receive the gift, Ndanu thanked the well-wisher and KTN News.  “Now, with the motorbike, I will be able to cover a wider area in a short time and reach more customers,” said Ndanu.  While presenting the motorcycle to Ndanu, the Standard Group’s Operations Editor Andrew Kagwa thanked the well-wisher and urged Ndanu to endeavour to expand her business.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Ali Manzu, the Deputy Editor Broadcast congratulated Ndanu, saying her win was an indication that KTN shows have a wide reach.  KTN anchor Sycilia Wakesho, who did the story, said seeing Ndanu gifted motivated her to continue doing what she does best, that is hosting women on her show.   Mwanamke Ngangari: Seneta mteule Bi. Zipporah Kittony  Mwanamke Ngangari: Elizabeth Esther ambaye amechukua jukumu la kuwashauri Wanawake waliobakwa   KTN Leo Mashinani: Mwanamke Ngangari Dimna Khasiala By Patrick Vidija | 7 hours ago By Esther Kirong' | 22 hours ago By Lilian Chepkoech | 1 day ago By Boniface Okendo | 1 day ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements