Makueni Ward Representatives have threatened to impeach Finance Executive over delayed salaries and allowances.  The MCAs are accusing Governor Kivutha Kibwana of a plot to punish 120 assembly staff for political differences.  But Kibwana says the MCAs dug their own grave, and won’t pay huge allowances for unverifiable trips that the assembly members are demanding.  The staff have not been paid their allowances since January. They also complain of missing salaries amounting to Sh70 million for March and April.  The assembly has 48 MCAs while the rest are employees in different departments.  Makueni mango eyes EU market  Kibwana abandons Linda Katiba, teams up with Mutua to support BBI  Acquiring choppers: What’s Raila up to?  AG: Public officers free to push referendum Bill The war is taking a political twist with MCAs allied to Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka claiming Prof Kibwana is revenging defeat in the March Kitise/Kithuki ward by-election. During the polls, the governor supported a Muungano aspirant who lost to a Wiper candidate.  “The governor expected us to support his Muungano candidate but majority defied him. After losing the seat, things changed. The governor is brewing unnecessary wars. Assembly employees are suffering and that is why we will impeach the Executive Committee Member for Finance,” said an MCA.  “In January, the county received Sh752 million, Sh335 million in February and Sh629 million in March and so there is no reason for not releasing funds,” added Majority Whip Joseph Muema.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! But the administration blamed late disbursement of funds from the National Treasury.  “The Executive in charge explained that the latest disbursement received by the county was on March 25, 2021, which was for the month of January,” said Kibwana.  Kibwana criticised the assembly for striking an MoU with a local bank for advance payment of salaries without enough consultations. The money was to be repaid in 30 days. The bank has since cut business with the assembly.  Kibwana said he would not pay allowances on personal or political party meetings. “Some MCAs travel to even Arusha, Tanzania, for political party affairs and they demand to be paid. Some are demanding up to Sh500,000 in a month. We will not pay such allowances since we don’t want audit queries,” said Kibwana.      Makueni governor professor Kibwana calls upon the promotion of literature studies in schools  Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana blames structural deficiency for massive pilferage within the Count  Gavana wa Makueni Kivutha Kibwana akiri kuwa utepetevu ufujaji wa pesa katika serikali hiyo By Brian Otieno | 2 hours ago By Hassan Barisa | 3 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 5 hours ago By Patrick Vidija and Jacob Ng'etich | 6 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements