Justice Eric Ogolla at Mombasa High Court. [Kelvin Karani, Standard]  Elected leaders or State officers cannot represent or appear for public officers accused of corruption, the High Court has ruled.  The High Court in Mombasa on Tuesday, April 27 cited a conflict of interest in oversight role as the reason for barring persons holding elective positions from legally representing civil servant graft suspects.  “Such participation by State officers as counsels for accused persons in such proceedings would be in conflict with their statutory and Constitutional duty,” noted Justice Eric Ogolla.  The judge’s ruling is a major win for the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (ODPP), which sought to have lawyers holding public offices barred from acting on behalf of government agency heads accused of graft.  When investment firms go down with your money  The Church must be the salt and light in these trying times  The corrupt have been having the ball.... how judge Koome will deal with the vice  Time to root out graft from the education sector “Justice Eric Ogolla, in this regard, barred Siaya Senator James Orengo and any other State officer from appearing for former Kenya Ports Authority Managing Director Daniel Manduku in a graft case,” ODPP tweeted on Tuesday.  The former KPA MD is accused of impropriety in the award of a Sh244.8 million tender.  Some of the State officers who have previously represented public officers in various cases include Senators James Orengo, Kipchumba Murkomen and Mutula Kilonzo Jr.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! In November 2020, while outlining some of the challenges he faced in the fight against corruption, Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji said top of his list was that State officials charged with corruption still remain in office.  In 2019, Haji and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) signalled that they would persuade judges to enforce laws ordering top officials charged with corruption to vacate office for the entire duration of their cases.   "Dictionary yake haikuwa na neno corruption", Mzee Matundura remembers Simeon Nyachae  Rais Uhuru Kenyatta atoa ahadi kuwa hatukakua na ufujaji wa hela ya kuinua vijana nchini  Lands Ministry plans to issue 1.2 million new title deeds by the end of 2016 By Paul Ogemba | 2 hours ago By Wambua Sammy | 3 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 5 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 5 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements