The United Democratic Alliance (UDA) has challenged President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party’s decision to end its coalition.  Instead, the party linked to Deputy President William Ruto and his Tangatanga wing, now want the matter before the Registrar of Political Parties Ann Nderitu left to the internal mechanisms of the two parties.  The ruling party, through its Secretary-General Raphael Tuju on Tuesday, wrote to Nderitu seeking a dissolution of its pre-election agreement with the Party of Development and Reforms, the political party that is now UDA.  UDA, in a response to the Registrar yesterday, said it was putting its confidence in the disputes arbitration panel of the coalition to determine its fate.  "The relevant organs of the coalition parties shall undergo the appropriate arbitration process in a bid to resolve the dispute and update you of the outcome thereof," UDA Secretary-General Veronica Maina, told Nderitu.  Tana River MCAs impeach Speaker Justin Nkaduda   Twice bitten, Mudavadi casts his lot with new alliance  Jubilee starts process to end pact with UDA party  Jubilee ends its coalition agreement with UDA Maina said UDA disagreed with Jubilee's move to end the coalition and suggests that the two parties go to arbitration to iron out their differences.  "In the meantime, all parliamentarians holding office pursuant to the coalition agreement and in particular, the Deputy Majority Leader Senator Fatuma Dullo should continue holding office until such a time as the disputes arbitration panel," she said.  Listed grievances  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Others elected on a PDR ticket include Wajir Woman Rep Fatuma Gedi, and MPs Ahmed Bashane (Tarbaj), Mark Lomunokol (Kacheliba) and Sophia Abdi (Ijara).  Through Tuju, Jubilee listed grievances against its coalition partner, key among them that UDA was undermining Jubilee.  While Jubilee said they want to part ways with UDA, Tuju said all members of the dissolved coalition in leadership positions in the assemblies shall continue holding them.  Jubilee argues that UDA was a new entity and their relationship had become inhospitable. They also say UDA has been taken over by Ruto's allies and their 'hustler movement', something Jubilee is at odds with.  "We have found ourselves as strange bedfellows especially with the UDA use of their identity as "hustlers" which has a negative dictionary meaning and connotation," Tuju wrote.  But Tuju said the changes the party has gone through were more than Jubilee had bargained for.  Their attraction to PDR was that the party would give them a leg up in counties in Northern and North Eastern Kenya whose democracy is directed by clans.  "Apart from fielding candidates against Jubilee candidates some of their members have continued to refer to Jubilee Party in derogatory terms even in the public domain making it impossible to engage in any coalition-building discourse," said Tuju.  Jubilee also insists that UDA is stoking class and ethnic divisions by claiming to represent downtrodden hustlers, a contrast to Jubilee's Tuko Pamoja motto, which Tuju said sought to unite Kenyans.  UDA already has an elected Member of the County Assembly from London Ward in Nakuru County.       Political realignments ahead of 2022; War declared on new party UDA | POLITICAL POINT  Kifo Sudan Kusini: Familia moja Likuyani, Kakamega yaomboleza baada ya mpendwa wao kuuawa na waasi  ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford-K Moses Wetangula are currently working together By Brian Otieno | 2 hours ago By Hassan Barisa | 3 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 5 hours ago By Patrick Vidija and Jacob Ng'etich | 6 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements