Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya (left) with former Sports CS Rashid Echesa. [Mumo Munuve, Standard]  Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has said he is not dropping his presidential bid.  Oparanya defended his credentials of running for the top seat next year amid talks of him planning to support other candidates.  Speaking in Butere during the burial of Dr John Makonjio, his former advisor, the governor dismissed talks that his recent meetings with Deputy President William Ruto and Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka were meant to strike a deal between him and the two politicians and for him to abandon his presidential ambition.   "We should stop the rumours that have been emerging daily when leaders meet that they are planning to support each other. These meetings are meant to benchmark and bring unity among all the leaders and Kenyans," said Oparanya.  Unveiling the pyramid scheme playing out as elections near  ODM wary of betrayal as rush for political alliances begins  Former politicians plot comeback in 2022  Shock revelation on Raila 2022 run Oparanya dismissed reports that he is planning to ditch ODM, but said he is open to working with other leaders from other communities and parties.  He said he was solidifying his ambition to be the president by meeting any leader who can offer him support in return.  “When you want to be a national leader like who I aim to be in 2022, you must make friends with the right people,” said Oparanya. The governor, who applied for the ODM presidential ticket alongside his Mombasa counterpart Hassan Joho, has elicited talks that he may be planning to ditch the party.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Oparanya said he is still a loyal ODM party member and he aims to use the party as his preferred ticket for the presidential race in 2022.   The Grand Report: Has the handshake met its objective three years since Uhuru, Raila shook hands?  Political temperatures heightened as 2022 politics heat up | Week in Review  Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya declares his interest to vie for presidency in 2022 By Brian Otieno | 2 hours ago By Hassan Barisa | 3 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 5 hours ago By Patrick Vidija and Jacob Ng'etich | 6 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements