An empty office.  Many entrepreneurs talk about how working for themselves for too long has made them “unemployable” and say they could never go back to a regular 9 to 5 job.  Yet for whatever reason — be it a thirst for new experiences or the stress of keeping your business afloat 24-7 — many people do decide to make the transition back to corporate.  If you’ve found yourself in this position, you’ll probably know you have no shortage of skills and talent to offer a company, but that doesn’t make the switch any less daunting.  Going from being your own boss and always having the final say to reporting to somebody else is a major change and if you’ve been outside the corporate world for a while, you might worry that you won’t be able to fit in seamlessly. To help guide you through the journey, here are a few pointers to keep in mind.  Focus on finding the right fit  As a current entrepreneur, you have a unique advantage in your job search: You already have a steady income source, so you don’t face an immediate rush in securing the right role.  Throughout your time working for yourself, you’ve probably built up some strong ideas about how you work best, which kinds of skills you’d like to develop and what your greatest interests are.  Did you know that the average time it takes for a person to find a new role is about five months? You’re not a failure if you’re still struggling after a month or two (especially if you’re also running your business while you’re searching).  Having said that, there’s some value behind going full steam ahead and trying to get the position you want as quickly as possible.  Consider a coach  A coach can help you figure out the kind of role you’re looking for and create a solid process for finding it. As an entrepreneur, you may have been “out of the loop” or on the “other side of the desk” for a while, and you may have an outdated idea of what the typical hiring process for someone at your level looks like.  Regardless, a coach is a perfect choice for bridging this gap and helping you find a job much faster. Coaches are particularly useful for professionals making a significant career switch, and going from entrepreneur to employee certainly falls under that bracket. They can get you up to speed on the latest interview techniques, walk you through the hiring process and give you the feedback you need to show up in a way that appeals to companies.  Don’t over-emphasise your entrepreneurial experience  Most entrepreneurs are very proud of their background in creating their own companies successfully, so it’s only natural to want to highlight this when applying for jobs or talking to potential employers.  But while your entrepreneurial skills are an asset, some employers might be concerned that your background and attitude mean you’re not much of a team player and may struggle to work with others or follow instructions.  Time to own it  Creating and running a business is something that not everyone can do — chances are, if you can get to grips with that, you can also master rejoining the corporate world.  It might be a shock to your system at first to fill out applications and carry out interviews again, but if you adopt the right attitude and follow the right process, there’s no reason to think you won’t see success.  Just make sure you have clarity about what you really want from a corporate role, and then create an action plan for how you’re going to get there. It might happen sooner than you expected.  By Wainaina Wambu | 13 hours ago By Tony Mutugi | 1 day ago By Tony Mutugi | 15 days ago By Tony Mutugi | 21 days ago