Joseph Kamau Muthunga allegedly killed sergeant Ayub Apollo at Kedong ranch. [File, Standard]  A Naivasha court has allowed the detectives to continue holding a police officer arrested in connection with the killing of his boss for eight more days.  Naivasha Senior Resident Magistrate Esther Mburu allowed Solomon Kirwa, a detective investigating the murder case, to hold Joseph Kamau Muthunga, who allegedly killed sergeant Ayub Apollo at Kedong Camp on Christmas Day.  The suspect will be held at Naivasha Police Station with a directive that he gets psycho-social support after claiming that he underwent psychological torture.  Mr Kirwa had applied to have the suspect held for 14 days. He told the court that they needed to conduct a ballistic analysis on the gun and an autopsy on the body.  “We are asking for 14 days to finish all our investigations and charge the accused with the necessary counts,” he said.  But the suspect said the days were too many and that he had undergone mental torture since he was arrested.  He said he didn’t have a lawyer and called on the court to have him either detained at a hospital or his home.  Sergeant Ayub Apollo. [Courtesy]  However, the court rejected his application. Ms Mburu directed that the welfare officer at the police station should ensure that the suspect gets psycho-social support while in custody.  The case will come up for hearing on January 6, 2022.  This came as the family of the deceased conducted a postmortem which established that the senior officer was shot three times and died from excessive bleeding.  According to an autopsy conducted by government pathologist Dr Titus Ngulungu in a private mortuary in Mai Mahiu town, the deceased was shot on the head, shoulder and leg, leading to massive bleeding that led to the collapse of the internal organs.  Trouble started on Saturday evening when the officer returned to the camp drunk after a drinking spree in Mai Mahiu town. A confrontation ensued with his senior.  A witness said the officer first shot in the air three times, and when the senior came out to enquire what was going on, he was shot three times.  “The senior officer died on the spot as the suspect turned to another officer who escaped,” he said.  By Michael Saitoti | 10 hours ago By Nikko Tanui | 12 hours ago By Kamore Maina | 13 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 20 hours ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.