Deputy President William Ruto has promised to end the perennial squatter problem and construct a Sh100 billion Special Economic Zone (SEZ) to spur economic growth and create jobs at the Coast.  Speaking at a meeting with elders at Burhania, Mombasa yesterday, Ruto said the region's economy was ruined by a few rich individuals that dominated the logistics sector.  He claimed the same individuals ganged up to frustrate the Dongo Kundu SEZ project that was to create jobs for youth affected by the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) project.  The DP promised to ensure construction of the SEZ on the 4,000-acre land in Dongo Kundu, in Likoni Constituency.   According to government estimates, the project that entails an export processing zone, value addition firms and manufacturing could create 40,000 new jobs.  Ruto said the SGR project was to be implemented concurrently with the SEZ. "The SEZ project was abandoned and now Mombasa looks like a deserted ghost town," he said.  The DP was accompanied by several MPs and aspirants. He promised to set up agro-processing factories to create job opportunities.  He said his administration would fast-track issuance of title deeds to Coast residents, adding that the Jubilee government had in the last eight years issued 433,000 land documents in the region. "I have always said the solution to the problem is to divide the land where squatters are and give them a title deed. I'm committed to ending the land question," he said.  Ruto promised to set aside Sh50 billion to be advanced as loans to small businesses.  He said since 2013, the government had connected more than 8 million households to electricity, while in Mombasa, where the project started, 385,000 households benefited. "When we took power only 130,000 people in Mombasa had power," said Ruto.  He said under Jubilee, Coast had benefitted from major infrastructure expansion, including Port of Mombasa, Moi International Airport and roads.  Council of Elders in Mombasa chair Jahazi thanked Ruto for recognising local elders. He warned those seeking leadership against failing to recognise wise elders.  By Renson Mnyamwezi | 7 hours ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 8 hours ago By Philip Mwakio | 1 day ago By Philip Mwakio | 2 days ago