Police in Nyandarua County have impounded bhang with an estimated street value of Sh6 million.  Police in Ol Kalou, Nyandarua County, have impounded bhang with an estimated street value of Sh6 million and arrested three suspects.  Area police commander Mohamed Dahir the suspects were arrested at Rurii village on Saturday morning following a tip-off.  He said the suspects hid the vehicle they were using to ferry the drug at a private home on Friday evening after sensing they were being followed by the police.  Dahir said the three were ferrying the bhang from Migori County and were heading to Mombasa.  Nyandarua County Assembly has a thriving reading culture, from books pirated far and wide  Initiative to plant over 500,000 trees launched in schools  DCI asks to meet Nyeri driver sacked for reporting students smoking bhang  County disburses Sh147m in bursaries to needy students "We got information from the local chief that there was a vehicle that had been parked in someone's compound without the knowledge of the owner of the home and that they were suspicious of it. We moved in and found that it was carrying the consignment," said the officer.  The police commander noted that they first arrested the driver who led them to where his alleged accomplices were.  "The driver confessed that they were taking the bhang to Mombasa from Migori," he said.  Dahir wondered how the trio managed to evade all the police roadblocks from Migori to Ol Kalou.  "This is a cartel that should be investigated. We will not allow Nyandarua County to be used as a scape route for criminals," he said.  The three are currently being held at Ol Kalou Police Station as the police carry out investigations.   Shule iliyofungwa wiki jana Nyandarua baada ya wanafunzi 16 kuambukizwa Korona kufunguliwa  Baba awadunga kisu wanawe wawili katika eneo la Nyandarua, watoto hao wako mahututi hospitalini  Baba awajeruhi wanawe eneo la Nyandarua, Matembezi ya Tuju, Msongo wa Mawazo | MBIU WIKENDI By Lydiah Nyawira | 1 day ago By George Njunge | 2 days ago By George Njunge | 3 days ago By Phares Mutembei | 4 days ago