Deputy President William Ruto's Chief of Staff Ken Nyauncho Osinde. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto joined family and mourners in paying their last respects to his Chief of Staff Ken Nyauncho Osinde who was buried at his Ngata home in Nakuru.  Osinde, 59, died on December 10 at the Nairobi Hospital after a short illness.  DP Ruto described the death of former Kenya’s ambassador to Germany as a blow to his office and family citing his dedication to serving Kenyans at the Office of Deputy President.   “He held the office as I traversed the country. I delegated a lot of duties to him and he never let me down. He performed to the best of his ability and always consulted where the need arose,” said Ruto.  According to the eulogy, Osinde complained of stomach pains on December 7 and was rushed to the hospital where he was diagnosed with extensive internal bleeding due to a rupture of a vein.   “His death reminds us of the need to implement the universal health plan. We need laws and structures to implement them. The law is currently in Senate and hopes it will be fast-tracked to speed up the implementation,” said Ruto.  He pointed out that most Kenyans were suffering and incurring heavy medical bills due to delayed treatment as they shun hospitals fearing the cost implication of health services.  “We shouldn't lose a person at their prime because they couldn't access health care due to financial challenges. We promised universal health and we remain committed to delivering that promise,” he said.  Osinde’s wife Judy described their 32 years in marriage as a pleasant journey of marital bliss during which they had five children.  “Ken lived a full life. His love for me, his family, and people were unmatched. He touched the lives of thousands of people at a professional level and otherwise. He had a way of making everyone feel valued,” said Judy.  North Mugirango MP Joash Nyamoko described Osinde as a strategist and mobilizer citing his role in campaigning for the Jubilee administration across Nyamira county in 2017.   “When we were looking for votes, we walked with Ken in Nyamira county and he was key in our success. The government has lost a great worker," said Nyamoko.   Vincent Mogaka, the West Mugirango MP said that Osinde was a humble servant leader who always reduced himself to the level of people who sought his audience at the Office of the Deputy President.   South Mugirango MP Silvanus Osoro said it was a pain to lose the former ambassador when he was in his prime.  “A beautiful flower has been plucked from the garden. He was a very friendly person. There is no parent who wishes to bury their children. Naturally, it is supposed to be the reverse,” said Osoro.   On politics, Osoro said that their move to reject the Political Parties Amendment Bill was aimed at ensuring there was fairness and taming rogue party officials.  “We were not fighting individuals but the creation of an imperial registrar of political parties. They want us to have the registrar remove a person from a party at will. Those making such laws should think about them when they won't be in their favour,” said Osoro.  His sentiments were echoed by Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika who lauded members of the National Assembly who voted against the bill saying that those vouching for it didn’t follow the right procedures.  “They wanted to pass it in one sitting. It had not gone through the first and second reading. I urge the MPs to remain firm. Laws should be passed through the procedure and not based on who is fronting them,” said Kihika.  By Lynn Kolongei | 1 hour ago By Rashid Lorogoi | 3 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 4 hours ago By Yvonne Chepkwony | 14 hours ago