Methodist Bishops; Joseph Ntombura and Stephen Kanyaru. [File, Standard]  Leadership wrangles at the Methodist Church took a twist after a local daily carried a notice yesterday, denouncing the interim leadership and caretaker committee.  The move comes days after the interim leadership on Tuesday held a press conference in Nairobi, accusing ousted Presiding Bishop Joseph Ntombura of threats and accessing office illegally.  The interim leadership claimed they have intelligence that Ntombura and his team have been accessing the Methodist Ministries Centre office in Lavington and holding meetings despite an exiting order barring the same.  On December 3, a proclamation was done by more than 200 delegates from various synods to the effect that an interim leadership be instituted to run the affairs of the church going forward. This move saw Ntombura ousted as the Presiding Bishop of the church and President of the Africa Methodist Council.  The interim leadership consisting of Bishop Stephen Kanyaru, Isaiah Deye (secretary), Dr Gerishon Mwiti (treasurer) and a caretaker committee took over office for about seven months.  The delegates will hold a conference next year around August to elect the new presiding bishop.  ‘’The conference Standing Committee of the Methodist Church in Kenya wishes to notify all our esteemed members and the general public that the persons whose photographs appear above (Misheck Kanake, Dr Stephen Kanyaru and Isaiah Deye), as well as those whose names are listed below, ceased to be ministers and members of the Methodist Church in Kenya,’’ read the notice.  Among those listed as defrocked ministers in the advert are Dr Charles Makonde, Jacob Ibuatha, Maingi Ruaria, James Muriki, Ronald Nzai, Richard Abio and Cosmas Tuji.  The excommunicated members are Dr Gerishon Mwiti, Goeffrey Kathurima, Dr Gladys Mwiti, Hellen Kamencu, Kobia Michubu, Martin Muriuki and Mathews Kaburu.  The advert said they are not authourised to carry any business on behalf of the church. According to the interim leadership, the ouster caused chaos, forcing police to come and restore peace.  The Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti ordered that no previous leadership led by Ntombura or current interim leadership would access the premises until the matter is solved.  ‘‘According to DCI Twitter account on December 4, 2021, the building was put under 24 hours surveillance until the stalemate is resolved. We are yet to know under which circumstances Ntombura and his team were allowed back into the building yet according to the police, the building was cordoned off from access by anyone,’’ said Dr Mwiti.  Bishop Ntombura issued a statement maintaining he is still the Presiding Bishop and his team and the others are working against them using threats to cling to power.  ‘‘Over the past few days, we have seen Ntombura resort to unchristian remarks, insults, unsavoury statements and threats to the interim leadership and other dissenting church members. This is quite unfortunate especially coming from clergymen,’’ said Dr Mwiti.  The leaders, who challenged Ntombura to come out publicly and speak to the media about the allegations of mismanagement on the church’s Kenya Methodist University centre, corruption among other scandals, claimed he has started disposing off church property illegally.  ‘‘We have discovered that already he has entered into loan facility deal of Sh2.5 billion with a Middle East bank. We therefore forewarn the public and banks from being tricked into any agreement with Ntombura since doing that will be at your own risk,’’ said Dr Kanyaru.  By Paul Ogemba | 10 minutes ago By Patrick Muinde | 1 hour ago By Kamau Muthoni | 2 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura | 6 hours ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.