ODM leader Raila Odinga. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  Mt Kenya governors supporting ODM leader Raila Odinga are working on an alliance with like-minded political parties ahead of next year’s General Election.  The governors met yesterday in Naivasha and revealed they were working on a pre-election pact that would see a coalition party field a presidential candidate.  They said their presidential flag-bearer will be a coalition candidate and not like in previous arrangements where the presidential candidate belonged to a particular party.  “Previously, it was only political parties that nominated presidential candidates, and therefore is better for the future coalition to have the same rights as political parties to pick a presidential candidate,” said Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi.  Iria meets delegations, pledges manifesto in January  Two Ford-K faction leaders warm up to Raila, promise a new outfit   Ruto visits Nyeri again and donates millions to groups  What if Ruto says ‘Raila tosha’ in the 2022 poll contest? He said they support the Political Parties (amendment) Bill 2021 sponsored by the National Assembly Majority Leader Amos Kimunya that proposes, among other things, that coalitions to field presidential candidates.  “We are bringing in all of those who have interest of not just the mountain region, but all over the country. People who have interest to oversee an effective transformation of the country in 2022 and beyond,” said James Nyoro at the Great Rift Valley Lodge. Others present were Lee Kinyanjui of Nakuru and Francis Kimemia of Nyandarua.  They revealed that they had already started talks with the Party of National Unity and Ubuntu Peoples Forum, which is linked to Mr Kinyanjui.  Mr Nyoro said the four were speaking on behalf of a bigger group, and that they had started a journey of unity that would end with a ‘super alliance'.  The Bill seeks to pave the way for a grand coalition government. The proposal has the backing of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila, who appear keen to craft an alliance to take on Deputy President William Ruto.  The four governors have been instrumental in ODM leader's campaigns in Central Kenya.  Mr Muriithi and Kinyanjui advocated civil and issue based campaigns to eliminate ethnic hatred and violence.  "Everybody who looks at the character of the current political campaigns, I think it is possible to see a departure from that. We do not anticipate violence and we are working hard to ensure it does not happen," said Kinyanjui .  Raila is expected to declare his presidential bid on Friday.   Musalia: Don't use school buses for political activity  Tension still high in Tot, Elgeyo Marakwet county following recent bandit attack that left four dead  DP Ruto witnesses Waiguru-Ngirici supremacy war By Boniface Gikandi | 1 hour ago By John Shilitsa | 2 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 2 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 2 hours ago