Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya endorsed his deputy Prof Philip Kutima’s bid to succeed him next year. [Benjamin Sakwa, Standard]  Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya has endorsed his deputy Prof Philip Kutima’s bid to succeed him next year.  “My deputy has not only been loyal but also capable of managing the county government affairs, we have enjoyed the cordial working relationship,” said the governor.  Oparanya asked residents to must rise above tribalism and reject corrupt leaders to enable the country to make huge strides towards economic development.  “We shall achieve a lot including job creation and a vibrant economy as a nation if we elect the right leaders to represent us and embrace togetherness,” Oparanya told Malava constituents during a public rally at Tande Secondary school grounds yesterday. The county chief argued that Azimio la Umoja under ODM leader Raila Odinga is aimed at uniting all tribes and guaranteeing the people equal representation in the government.  “Divisive politics and corruption are killing our nation. The economy is not growing yet people have skills but they are not being employed.  Malava is the most populous sub-county in Kakamega and that’s why we have decided to embark on our Azimio la Umoja campaigns right here,” said Oparanya.  He added: “Let us walk the journey together to ensure we are part of the next government,”   Oparanya noted that Bukhungu ll meeting will bring together all communities living in Western.   “It is not a Luhya tribe affair but a meeting for all the communities from Trans Nzoia, Kakamega, Busia, Vihiga, and Bungoma counties.”  He insisted that next year's presidential contest is a two-horse- race between Raila and Deputy President William Ruto and ruled out the possibility of a third force.  He further called on the youth not to accept to be misused by politicians.  “Our young people should not be used to cause chaos, all leaders seeking votes are welcome to sell their agenda everywhere in the country and Kakamega is no exception,” said Oparanya.  By Benard Lusigi | 1 hour ago By Benard Lusigi | 10 hours ago By Elvince Joshua | 19 hours ago By Obare Osinde | 19 hours ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.