KRA offices, Times Tower, Nairobi. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard]  The Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) has auctioned tonnes of contraband sugar worth millions of shillings in Turkana County.  The sugar that is alleged to have been illegally smuggled into Kenya from neighbouring countries were seized 18 days ago in Lokichoggio, but the owners failed to clear the requisite taxes.  According to authorities, the sugar was destined for various retail outlets in Turkana and parts of Western Kenya.  Most of the impounded goods were allegedly imported illegally from Uganda. KRA's Customs Department told The Standard that the sugar was still good for consumption.  How Kamiti staff helped terror convicts flee from prison  Leven House: The anti-slavery base that hosted Dr Krapf   Excise duty increase punitive to taxpayers, fuelling illicit trade  Give Kenyans reason for paying taxes with a smile The taxman said the goods were inspected by the Kenya Bureau of Standards (KEBS) and the authority was given a nod to proceed with the auction.  KRA, together with other government agencies have been destroying contraband goods seized from importers.  "Port Health Services, KEBS and Food Authority (Sugar Directorate) inspected and cleared the goods for sale in an auction," the statement reads.  The taxman said it was the first time it was auctioning contraband goods seized in Turkana.   The authority, however, did not disclose the amount raised during the Wednesday auction, stating that more contraband sugar will be sold in coming days.  The sugar was seized during a crackdown on contraband goods last month.  Traders in Turkana have accused KRA of targeting small traders and not sugar barons.    War on Counterfeits: KRA officers sieze more than 30,000 litres of opaque beer in Embu county  KRA yakusanya shilingi 200B katika mwaka wa 2020; ni kiasi kikubwa kinyume na matarajio  Taxes & Small enterprises, discussion with experts from KRA | KTN News Special | Part 2 By Mutwiri Mutuota | 1 hour ago By Allan Mungai | 1 hour ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 1 hour ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 1 hour ago