Deputy President William Ruto addresses Wananchi at Bura, Tana River County on December 21, 2021. [DPPS, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto says he will push on with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda that he claimed was disrupted by the handshake.  Ruto, who popularised his bottom-up economic model in Garissa, criticised ODM leader Raila Odinga whom he described as a political puppet and a stooge for the wealthy.  Ruto and his allies in the region used the opportunity to sneer at the recent Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) claiming it was meant to deprive the region of revenue.   “Because we promised Kenyans the Big Four agenda which includes universal health coverage, job creation, food security and affordable housing, I promise to continue with that we pledged,” Ruto told a rally at Garissa Primary School.  The DP claimed their agenda for the country was disrupted by the opposition. The DP said he has a dream for a better Kenya and would make reduction of the cost of living a priority next year.   Ruto said if elected, his government will uplift micro, small and medium enterprises by providing a business-friendly environment, better policies and funding.  In a thinly veiled attack, Ruto accused the Mount Kenya Foundation of scheming to install their ‘puppet’ to run the country.  “We are telling our competitors that Kenyans will not accept a puppet to be installed as the president to protect the interest of the few people,” he said.  He said wealthy individuals were scheming to elect a president who will protect their wealth, saying Kenyans should elect a leader who will take care of the interests of everyone irrespective of tribe, race, religion and political affiliation.   The Deputy President claimed his competitors had hatched a plot to change the law so that they can form tribal coalitions and alliances.  He mentioned some of the mega projects that were undertaken by the Jubilee administration such as the Nunow-Modogashe road. He told the rally that if elected next year, he will take care of the region’s priorities.   Ruto opened the county's UDA offices and promised fair and free nominations.  During yesterday's rally, UDA aspirants were introduced led by Dekow Mohamed alias Major Delow who is aspiring to battle it out with Governor Ali Korane in the Garissa gubernatorial race.  By Patrick Vidija and Ali Abdi | 3 days ago By Mireri Junior | 18 days ago By Rashid Lorogoi | 1 month ago By Betty Njeru | 1 month ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.