ODM leader Raila Odinga while hosting children for a Christmas fun day at his Riat home in Kisumu County on December 24, 2021. [Collins Oduor, Standard]  ODM leader Raila Odinga has once again questioned the source of the money his political nemesis William Ruto has been dishing out in churches and during his rallies saying the deputy president belongs to jail because of what he termed ill-gotten wealth.  Raila, who spoke while launching the Kisumu Street Party on Friday, said Ruto got his wealth through dubious means even had he called on his supporters to ensure a six-piece voting in the August elections, especially in areas considered his strongholds.  The ODM chief poked holes in Ruto’s philanthropic activities saying the money he has been dishing out are proceeds of corruption.   Dr Ruto has been giving out millions of shillings during his political rallies saying it was his way of empowering the people but critics have questioned the source of his wealth.  Raila who exuded confidence he will floor Ruto also said he will seal all corruption loopholes that have been used to embezzle public funds to ensure his Sh6,000 per month social protection plan for vulnerable families is implemented.  "Having worked in government for five years as prime minister, I know where the funds are and how to get them. We will ensure leaders don't steal public funds," said Raila who spoke in Ugunja sub-county during an ODM delegates meeting on Saturday.  And while speaking in Kisumu on Friday, Raila said: "He spends over Sh100 million every month in fundraisers. Even the major companies cannot afford to spend that kind of money at that rate and remain in business.”  He said the DP's salary does not allow him to make the kind of donations he has been making.  However, Ruto as defended his donations, saying Raila does not like "because he is stingy".   “He belongs to jail because his money is ill-gotten,” said the ODM boss in a  statement is likely to reignite the debate on wealth declaration by public officials even as the country heads into the August elections.  It comes as the DP's donations made headlines as groups clash over the money during rallies.  "He has dared me to a political contest and I want to tell him that I have stepped into the ring and I am ready," said Raila adding; "He should also know that Christians and churches do not fancy corruption and proceeds of the vice."   "I am the right person to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta and I have what it takes to transform our economy."   Raila said his administration will focus on wealth creation in counties under a slogan “Uchumi Mashinani”.  He said he will emphasize on his proposed social welfare programme while increasing investment in modern technology.  Raila said he will also provide investors with a tax relief of up to seven years to enable their businesses to grow. "I am determined to transform the country by ensuring every sub-county is producing a product that can sold and add to the economies of our regions."   These promises were among goals Raila and Uhuru were hoping to achieve through the Building Bridges Initiative that flopped.  “We also want to create meaningful jobs. Let no one tell you that all jobs are the same,” said the ODM chief.  He called for six-piece voting to ensure ODM has enough members in the county and national assemblies as well as the Senate to defend its policies.   "You should elect ODM members only to give me strength in parliament and in county assemblies," said Raila.   He added: "In parliament, political parties get funds based on the members they have. I want you to elect only ODM members. You must wear our uniform when you are going for battle.”  Among MPs who floored ODM candidates in the last elections but don't appear keen to the Orange party include Ford Kenya’s Olago Aluoch of Kisumu Town West, Movement for Democracy and Growth’s (MDG) David Ochieng of Ugenya and Kisumu Town East MP Shakeel Shabir, who won the seat as an independent candidate.  In Siaya, MDG has vowed to field candidates in all elective seats but will support Raila for the presidency.  And while in Ugunja on Saturday, Raila told off those fighting his proposed social protection agenda saying some of those opposed to the idea were involved in looting public coffers.  "They steal money meant for the people and carry it in sacks to churches. I know where they get all that money from and it is the same money I will use to ensure the Sh6,000 monthly stipend project for the poor is fully implemented. Remember, I have been a prime minister of this country, I know where the money will come from," said the ODM leader.  He added: "I know all the loopholes government officials use to loot public money and I am determined to seal them. It is the same looted money that the corrupt officials use to oil the palms of scrupulous clergy. Then they go to public functions to fight my wonderful agenda."  Siaya Senator James Orengo who accompanied Raila accused Ruto of sabotaging President Kenyatta.  "Ruto has stopped working with the president yet he is still in government. Instead, his focus is on 2022 elections," said Orengo.  He said the DP spends  most of his time criticizing Raila instead of focusing on his role as the deputy president of Kenya as stipulated in the constitution.  "He chose to focus on political sabotage. There is a lot that could have been done now that Uhuru and Raila are united. However, Ruto focused on other things and forgot his job as DP," Orengo said.  East Africa Legislative Assembly MP Oburu Odinga claims by Ruto and his allies that Raila is a government project.  Bondo MP Gideon Ochanda said the political parties amendment Bill, 2021 will cure the pretense that has rocked political coalitions in Kenya.  Alego Usonga MP Sam Atandi claimed DP's allies have threatened to shoot the bill down and warned them against such a move saying the bill will sort out political dishonesty.  By Harold Odhiambo | 19 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 19 hours ago By Anne Atieno and Caleb Kingwara | 23 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 1 day ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.