Deputy President William Ruto addresses Nyamira Ekerenyo residents in Nyamira County on November 2, 2021. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  ODM leaders have accused Deputy President William Ruto of scheming to kill multi-party politics.  Allies of ODM leader Raila Odinga said by calling for the dissolution of parties to join United Democratic Alliance (UDA), the DP is attempting to kill multi-partyism which the country fought hard to achieve in the 1990's.  Ruto has been pushing parties allied to the Hustler movement to fold up and join UDA to form what he terms a "national party."  ODM leaders termed Ruto's campaign agenda retrogressive and designed to drag the country backwards.   Speaking during the burial of Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo's mother in Gem, Siaya County, yesterday, the leaders criticized the DP's style of politics which they claimed lacked a formidable agenda.  ODM director of political affairs and Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi claimed that Ruto and his camp are keen to trivialise political institutions.  "The camp led by Ruto wants to trivialise political institutions. We cannot kill some political parties to favor a single party,” said Mr Wandayi.  He said the death of smaller parties would spell doom for the country and drag it back to the days of one-party state.  “Parties must be allowed to conduct their own activities. That is why we have decided to let everyone join us in the Azimio la Umoja,” said Wandayi.  The leaders also poked holes in the DP’s campaign agenda saying it was focused on attacking Raila instead of addressing key issues affecting the country.  They said Ruto has given a wide-berth to the fight against corruption and has not come out publicly to condemn the vice.  Nyando MP Jared Okello said that Raila’s ten-point agenda will transform the country.  “The DP and his team have turned Raila into an agenda. Raila is not an agenda for any election. They should get their agenda and stop talking about Raila,” said Mr Okello.  Senator James Orengo described the bottoms-up economic model as a system that is akin to trickle down which is only aimed at boosting existing businesses and not job creation.  “The politics of bottoms up is like the politics of trickle-down. It cannot lead to job creation. Only Raila’s model can create job and I am asking Kenyans to look at the two models carefully,” said Mr Orengo.  Other leaders who attended the burial were MPs Walter Owino (Awendo), Samuel Atandi (Alego Usonga), David Ochieng (Ugenya), Gideon Ochanda (Bondo), former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero and Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang.  The leaders accused the DP of misleading the public that his campaign agenda would transform the country.  They rallied support for the ODM leader saying he is best placed to take the country forward and urged residents to enlist in their numbers as voters.  “We must prioritize national unity and cohesion. If you think national unity and cohesion is not important then look at Ethiopia,” said Mr Kajwang.  Dr Kidero urged Nyanza leaders to woo voters from other regions to back Raila’s presidential bid.  He urged residents to register as voters and come out in large number to vote for Raila in the August 9, 2022 General Election.  Kidero who is eyeing the Homa Bay governor seat said leaders should shun infighting and focus on marshalling support for Raila.  ODM leaders urged residents to embrace six-piece voting pattern.  Dr Oburu Oginga said Nyanza should give the ODM chief foot soldiers who can help him clinch the presidency.  They criticised Ugenya MP David Ochieng for insisting that his Movement Democracy and Growth will field candidates for all elective positions except the presidency where they will support Raila.  “We will allow competition but only in ODM,” said Oburu.  By Moses Nyamori and Grace Ng’ang’a | 3 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 11 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 15 hours ago By Steve Mkawale | 19 hours ago