ODM leader Raila Odinga addresses residents of Kisumu at Kisumu Railway Station after boarding the recently launched Kisumu- Nairobi train from Fort Tenan to Kisumu on December 22 2021. [Collins Oduor, Standard]  ODM leader Raila Odinga has exuded confidence the Azimio la Umoja movement will transform and unite the country. He promised to fight diseases, poverty and ensure education for Kenyans as well as improve the economy.  He spoke on Wednesday during the launch of the rehabilitated Nakuru-Kisumu railway at Fort Ternan. The ODM leader said it was possible to unite Kenya and ensure equity.  Raila, who rode on the train to Kisumu addressed residents during stops at various centres where he urged them to rally behind Azimio la Umoja movement. "We recently launched Azimio la Umoja and our aim is to ensure that we unite all Kenyans," he said.   Raila said the journey to unite Kenya is unstoppable and is crucial in sparking economic growth and national cohesion. "Our enemies as Kenyans include diseases, illiteracy and poverty. Those are problems that we must address," said Raila. "We want to ensure that we fight diseases as well as ensure that all children get an opportunity to pursue their education," he added.  The ODM leader expressed optimism that he would clinch the presidency and transform the economy.  He promised that as part of plans to improve the economy, rail networks would be improved to interlink with neighbouring countries. He urged residents to enlist in their numbers as voters. "I want to urge you to enlist as voters. It is the electoral weapon that is vital as we head to the polls," he said.  He also urged his supporters to remain steadfast behind him.  Raila was accompanied by Governors Anyang' Nyong'o' (Kisumu), James Ongwae (Kisii) and Wycliffe Oparanya of Kakamega.  Raila, who is Africa Union's Envoy for Infrastructure Development, said the revival of rail transport would play an important role in improving the economy.  The revived 216km line serving western Kenya will support other investments, including the rehabilitated Kisumu Port.  Raila described the revival of the rail as a significant step in unlocking the economy. "We are reviving the rail to facilitate the transport of people and goods," said Raila.  He said plans were afoot to ensure the line extends to Uganda and Tanzania. "We want the rail network to connect even with Musoma and Mwanza in Tanzania, as well as Port Bell, Jinja and Kampala in Uganda," said Raila, as he emphasised the benefits of the revamped Kisumu Port.  The bulk Kenyan exports to Uganda go through Port Bell and Jinja, through the Kisumu Port. This means an additional mode of rail transport could be a significant boost.  The revival of the line alongside the Kisumu-Butere's is a project the government has prioritised to help unlock the economy of Western Kenya.  The leaders said that the revived railway will improve trade. "We are happy with the revival of the railway. It will help spur economic growth," said Nyong'o.  The train has made two trips to Nairobi since the rail started operations last week with its remaining trips before the end of the year fully booked.  jubilant residents lauded the efforts and said it is a blessing for them.  Stephen Lagat, a Fort Ternan resident who used to board the train in the early 1990s, said it would enable them to transport farm produce with ease. "In the 1990s we would only pay Sh200 to Nairobi, unlike now that we part with almost Sh2,000," he said.  Hundreds of passengers who boarded the train were stranded for hours on Tuesday evening after it stalled. But this has not dampened the spirits of residents. An elated Raila, who later posted a photo of him with his grandchild on the train on Facebook, said: "Nothing beats a nostalgic train ride than sharing it with one of my grandkids."  "The holiday season for me is all about spending time with family. I loved the short train ride into Kisumu this afternoon," Raila said.  Raila has been championing for the revival of the Metre Gauge Railway to Kisumu and the extension of the Standard Gauge Railway to the lakeside city to spur economic growth.  The resumption of the rail service to Western Kenya is regarded as part of handshake goodies following a political deal between Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta.  Ongwae said that national unity is a major component of development and praised residents of Fort Ternan for peacefully for decades. "It is important that we promote national unity," he said.  Oparanya asked residents to enlist as voters to boost Raila's chances of clinching the presidency.   The refurbished rail to Kisumu is seen as one of the benefits of the handshake between Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta.  The ODM leaders allies have sought to ride on the various projects initiated following the March 2018 handshake and the stability the country has enjoyed, to market Raila as the best for the presidency in 2022 polls.  By James Omoro | 56 minutes ago By Anne Atieno | 17 hours ago By James Omoro | 23 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 23 hours ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.