The prosecution said they were now ready to charge the officers with the murder. [Caleb Kingwara, Standard]  Two police officers accused of killing a casual labourer in Kinangop, Nyandarua County, six months ago are fit to stand trial.  Police Constables Luka Kiragu and Morris Muthui were declared mentally stable following a medical check-up conducted at the Gilgil sub-County Hospital.  The two will now take a plea at the High Court in Naivasha on December 14. They allegedly killed 35-yer-old Daniel Emoji on June 22 in Tulaga centre.  The two, who appeared before Naivasha Senior Resident Magistrate Esther Mburu, will be remanded at Naivasha GK prison. The prosecution said they were now ready to charge the officers with the murder.  According to the investigation officers, the two officers based at Tulaga police post in South Kinangop were involved in a fight with the deceased outside a bar.  The two would later leave in a huff only for the body of the deceased to be found dumped along the Njabini-Engineer road the following day.  “After investigations, all fingers pointed to the two officers. They will now be charged with murder next week,” said one of the investigators.  The incident comes days after a junior police officer went berserk in Nairobi, shooting six people, including his girlfriend, for the fifth time before turning the gun on himself.  Meanwhile, Naivasha High School has been closed indefinitely after students attempted to torch a dormitory for the fifth time.  The students left a trail of destruction on Wednesday night.  The students reported back to school on Tuesday after a similar incident was thwarted over the weekend.  Naivasha deputy commissioner Mutua Kisilu said the students would remain home until advised otherwise.  “The students went berserk on Wednesday night destroying school property. We have decided to close the school indefinitely,” he said.  Already, eleven students from the nearby Naivasha Boys Secondary School are in police custody for burning one of the institution’s dormitories on Sunday evening.  By Patrick Vidija | 3 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 4 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 6 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 7 hours ago