Archbishop Anthony Muheria of the Archdiocese of Nyeri presided over Christmas Mass at Consolata Cathedral in Nyeri, December 25, 2021. [Mose Sammy, Standard]  Catholic clergy have now warned the government against a directive to deny services to those who are not vaccinated against the Covid-19.  While wading into the controversial Covid 19 vaccination directives the clergy led by Archbishop Anthony Muheria said such denial amounts to a violation of fundamental human rights.  Muheria issued a terse statement after leading Christmas Mass at Consolata Cathedral in Nyeri.   The clergy said such directives are only arrived at where is poor planning and coordination from the government.  " We do not agree with the government’s directive for the provision of vaccination certificate for service. You cannot take away the human rights of our citizens to be served,” said Muheria.  The clergy however advised Kenyans to seek medical attention when they feel covid-19 related symptoms.  “If you get a cold, make sure you get checked to confirm so that you don’t spread Covid-19 to others,” he said.  Earlier in the week the Ministry of Health said Kenyans will need to show proof of vaccination before accessing any public spaces in the country.  The Ministry’s decision was reached at after the National Emergency Response Committee noted a significant increase of new Covid-19 infections and the positivity rate in the month of December 2021.  In a press briefing on behalf of Health CS, Dr Mercy Mwangangi, the CAS said the state would recognise all vaccine brands approved by the World Health Organisation (WHO).  “One must show proof of vaccination (A Covid-19 Vaccination Certificate) before accessing public spaces including national parks, game reserves, bars, hotels, restaurants as well as during the use of public transport services,” Mwangangi stated.  Apart from emphasising the need for visitors from Europe to be fully vaccinated and provide proof of vaccination, Mwangangi also issued a stern warning against non-compliance with the new directives.  “In the event of non-compliance, action shall be taken which may include withdrawal of licenses or institution of court proceedings,” she warned.  As a result, each establishment must nominate a person to verify this information certificates can be presented in form of hard copy or digital and must have the QR code.  All travellers must show proof of a negative PCR test upon arrival at 72hrs before travel day.  A new wave has been sparked by the spread of Omicron Covid variant, thought to be less severe but more transmissible than the previously dominant Delta strain.  The government issued the directive despite the fact that a court order suspending the requirement is still in force.  In the High Court ruling delivered on December 14, Justice Anthony Mrima suspended the directive issued on November 21 by the Ministry of Health, pending the hearing and determination of the case filed by Mr Enoch Aura.  He added that the matter is placed before him on January 4 for further directions.  By Lydiah Nyawira | 6 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi | 6 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi | 1 day ago By Fidelis Kabunyi | 1 day ago