Nairobi Governor Ann Kananu says she he enjoyed a cordial working relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta. [File, Standard]  Nairobi Governor Ann Kananu has denied any bad blood between her and President Uhuru Kenyatta following claims of being sidelined during the Jamhuri Day celebrations at Uhuru Gardens.  In a statement released to the media on Monday evening, Kananu dismissed claims that she had fallen out with President Uhuru Kenyatta saying that her presence was not ignored during the function.  The governor said the celebration involved more than one major event whose coordination needed to be handled cautiously. "The Jamhuri Day celebrations and the trooping of the colour by 19 Battalion of The Kenya Rifles is an event that is managed intricately with extreme caution and precision. Time management becomes a key factor to its success and therefore the program is adjusted accordingly like was the case for my remarks," she said.  Governor Waiguru dismissed reports that she snubbed the state luncheon at State House after the Jamhuri event saying she withdrew from the luncheon on medical grounds.  “Last week on Tuesday, I was hospitalised for several days and in adherence to my doctor’s recommendation and advise; after the celebrations, I took a rest hence my absence from the Garden party at State House,” she said.  Kananu said contrary to the rumours, she enjoyed a cordial working relationship with President Kenyatta and was honoured to share the ceremony with him being her first national event after her swearing-in as governor.  The governor urged those trying to drive a wedge between her and President Kenyatta to desist forthwith, adding that she is focused on serving the people of Nairobi.  Kananu last Friday missed the Azimio la Umoja Convention where ODM leader Raila Odinga launched his 2022 State House bid.  However, ODM director of elections and campaigns Junet Mohamed told the gathering that the host governor was unwell and was absent with apology.  During the Mashuja Day celebrations held at Wanguru Stadium in Kirinyaga County, host governor, Anne Waiguru was given an opportunity to address the gathering before inviting Deputy President William Ruto to invite President Kenyatta to address the nation.  By Jael Mboga | 16 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 1 day ago By Kamau Muthoni | 4 days ago By Nancy Nzau | 5 days ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.