A man was killed when trying to separate two fighting brothers. [File, Standard]  Police in Marakwet East, Elgeyo Marakwet County have launched a manhunt for a suspect who allegedly shot and killed his neighbour with an arrow before fleeing the scene of the crime.  Preliminary investigations have revealed that Edwin Kibor, the deceased, sustained an arrow wound while intervening in a sibling fight.  According to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI), the two brothers, Joel Kitum and Onesmus Kemboi were arguing over a family debt of one cow.  A tweet by the DCI reveals that the argument turned fatal when one of the brothers shot (with an arrow) a neighbour who had come to intervene with an arrow.  Makers of the law who don’t mind hosting convict DCI boss George Kinoti  Court upholds Kinoti’s four-month jail term  Police want Nick Mwendwa to account for half a billion shillings  Kiptanui advises young athletes to plan for retirement  Neighbours who witnessed the incident have told sleuths that the suspect was aiming at his elder brother but missed his target.  “Onesmus picked a bow and arrow and aimed the arrow at his elder brother. He missed his target and the arrow went for Edwin Kibor’s (a neighbour trying to separate the two,” DCI tweeted.  The investigators established that Kibor was rushed to Endo Mission Hospital where he succumbed to the injury.   As a result, angry villagers and the deceased kin set ablaze 12 houses and eight granaries owned by the suspect’s kin.  However, elders in the village have managed to take charge of the situation and stopped further destruction of property.  The body of the deceased has been moved to the morgue awaiting autopsy as investigations and search for the suspect is underway.   Wazee wa Marakwet wajitolea kueneza amani, Majirani wa wakimbizi Turkana | MBIU YA KTN (Sehemu ya 2)  Bogus Degrees: DCI, EACC and IEBC to track culprits, team to hunt people with fake certificates  Former Governor Mike Sonko detained at DCI headquarters; he is to face robbery and assault charges By Bakari Ang'ela | 5 hours ago By Yvonne Chepkwony | 6 hours ago By Ndiritu Muriithi | 6 hours ago By Robert Kiplagat  | 1 day ago