Francis Atwoli addressing journalists on Monday, December 27, at the Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega County. [Mumo Munuve, Standard]  Police in Kakamega County are yet to issue a permit to Francis Atwoli, the convener of Bukhungu convention scheduled for Friday, December 31.  The Central Organization of Trade Unions (COTU) Secretary-General is yet to apply for the permit despite announcing in several media addresses that the event will be held at the Bukhungu Stadium.  Kakamega County Police Commander Hassan Barua told The Standard that Atwoli and team are, however, free to make the application a few days to the convention.  “We are capable of providing adequate security during the event,” said Barua. “We’re alert, and will fish out politicians inciting members of the public, both on social media and offline,” he added.  On Monday, December 27, Atwoli and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya inspected the Bukhungu Stadium ahead of the Friday convention.  “I support the event because at the heart of its deliberations, will be the Luhya community’s welfare,” said Oparanya.  Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala had vowed to scuttle plans for the Bukhungu meeting, saying his party leader-cum-preferred presidential candidate, Musalia Mudavadi, “had not been consulted”.  Malala said Kakamega was his (Malala’s) “bedroom”, and that he had immense say on who holds political gatherings in the county.  “We’ll conduct the [Bukhungu] event as planned, and nobody should threaten us [with violence],” said Oparanya.  The National Cohesion and Integration Commission has since summoned Malala over his Sunday utterances, which are deemed to be inflammatory.  “Kenya has no bedrooms and living rooms for any politician, and there is no space for locking out other politicians from any political side from any part of the country,” NCIC Chairperson Samuel Kobia said.  “These summons also mean that he (Malala) is now a prime candidate for inclusion in the wall of shame; as well as facing the full force of the law,” added the NCIC boss.  It is expected that Atwoli will, on Friday, rally the Luhya community behind Raila Odinga ahead of the 2022 presidential election.  Raila has confirmed he will attend the Friday meeting.  Atwoli has been on the record, vouching for a Raila presidency, saying “Kenya would be safe in his hands”.  By Martin Ndiema | 1 hour ago By Robert Amalemba | 3 hours ago By Brian Kisanji | 6 hours ago By Brian Kisanji | 19 hours ago