A view of Kisumu Town.  Two major streets in Kisumu will be closed on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day to allow residents to participate in a street bash organized by the devolved unit.  Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o’s administration has organized a major Christmas party for residents which will start at 8 pm on December 24.  The event which is one of its kind comes as the county continues with its quest to transform the city and improve its infrastructural outlook.  The county government has collaborated with the private sector to make the celebrations a success with a series of activities including live bands lined up for the celebrations. Four musical bands have been contracted by the devolved unit to entertain residents during the celebrations while some 24 hotels have also been engaged by the county government to supply food.   City Manager Abala Wanga made the announcement yesterday and said that two main roads will be closed during the event and expressed optimism that the event will be a success.  “We will close Oginga Odinga street and Jomo Kenyatta avenue to allow for the street bash,” said Wanga.  It is still unclear the amount of money the county has set aside for the street bash but sources claim it could be close to Sh2 million.  The development comes a few days after the county government also closed the streets to test car-free days in the lakeside city.  The Nyong’o administration later said it is exploring ways to incorporate the lessons learnt from the trials of a car-free day to improve mobility in the city.  There were mixed reactions from locals on the car-free day, with some claiming that the move had stalled their businesses while others praised it.  The county government said car-free days would encourage city dwellers to keep the city clean and embrace other means of transport, including bicycles and skating.  The streets affected included Nyerere Road, Ondiek Highway, Gumbi Road, Mosque Road, Achieng’ Oneko Road, Awuor Otieno Road, Omolo Ogar Road, Ang’awa Avenue, and the Oginga Odinga Street.  By Winfrey Owino | 12 hours ago By James Omoro | 19 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 19 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 20 hours ago