A patrol boat during the official launch of the Kenya Coast Guard Mbita station in Homa Bay County on December 3. [James Omoro, Standard]  For many years, the exercise of patrolling Lake Victoria has been a nightmare for police officers in counties bordering the fresh water body, especially in Homa Bay and Migori.  The challenge has been caused by lack of government vessels to help police officers respond to emergencies in the lake.  They have been relying on boats owned by individuals to allow them to go into the waters. This faced various challenges.  For example, it is not easy for a boat owner who supports a given crime in the lake to allow police officers to use his boat to go and fight the same crime. Difficulty by police officers to patrol made errant citizens take advantage of the situation to perpetuate illegalities in Lake Victoria.    Such violations occur in the form of transportation of contraband goods from Uganda and Tanzania.  Some passenger boat operators fail to adhere to safety regulations, leading to accidents. Those who are in the fishing sector flout regulations by use of forbidden fishing gears that kill immature fish.  But the government has now begun providing solutions to such problems.  This follows the establishment of a Kenya Coast Guard Station in Mbita town, Homa Bay County.  The station is equipped with boats and security officers to aid patrol in Lake Victoria. Kenya Coast Guard officers will work in collaboration with police officers to ensure safety in the lake. Fishermen say the station, officially opened early this month, is making an impact on the security of lake users.  Homa Bay County Beach Management Network chairman Edward Oremo said harassment of fishermen by security officers from the neighbouring countries has reduced.  This has been due to quick response and presence of the Kenya Coast Guard officers in the lake.  “Security has improved for the short time the Coast Guard officers have been here. Their presence in the lake issues red alert to people who intend to violate rights of others,” Oremo said.  He asked the government to open more stations in the county. “Opening two others and increasing the number of boats in the lake will improve safety of lake users.”  He said the security agency should open a search and rescue centre to help locals during accidents in the lake.  The Director-General of the Kenya Coast Guard Service Loonena Naisho, Homa Bay County Commissioner Moses Lilan and the County Police Commander Esther Seroney, who opened the station, said it would create a conducive environment for Lake Victoria users in their endeavours to eke a living.  The station will serve Homa Bay, Siaya and Migori counties.  Three new boats - MV Mageta, MV Migingo and MV Mkaguzi - were unveiled during the occasion. The boats will be used for patrol by the security officers in the lake.  MV Mageta was taken to Mageta island in Siaya, while the remaining two boats are stationed at Mbita to take care of Homa Bay and Migori counties.  According to Naisho, the station will make it easier to reduce crime in the lake.  “Time has come when we have to combat illegal activities in Lake Victoria. This will be achieved through the establishment of this station,” Naisho said.  Naisho said they would enforce compliance in the use of recommended fishing gear.  Lilan said improved security in the lake is creating a conducive environment for fishermen and transport operators in the lake.  “Blue economy is a government priority. We want residents to utilise this lake and earn a living in an efficient and appropriate manner,” Lilan said.  By James Omoro | 3 hours ago By Isaiah Gwengi | 6 hours ago By Isaiah Gwengi | 1 day ago By James Omoro | 1 day ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.