The committee, led by interim Chairman Paul Nzengu, ordered the company leadership to appear before it in Nairobi. [James Omoro, Standard]  A Chinese company has said it has been legally undertaking mining and blasting of stones in Kasipul constituency, Homa Bay County.  Last weekend, the National Assembly Committee on Environment and Natural Resources accused China City Construction Company of causing damages through its mining activities at Aketch village in Konuong’a.  The committee, led by interim Chairman Paul Nzengu, ordered the company leadership to appear before it in Nairobi to answer to accusations levelled against it.  The residents petitioned the National Assembly through their MP, Ong’ondo Were, over the suffering caused by the company.  House team asks Chinese firm to compensate 600 residents  EACC arrests officials over alleged embezzlement of Sh85.1m at Homa Bay County Assembly  Melly and Chumba emerge winners in National Beach volleyball  MPs from Kakamega want residents paid by mineral mining firms Over 600 residents raised grievances that include miscarriages by expectant women, some reportedly developed heart attacks from the impact of blasting, while others developed respiratory diseases.  The firm has been mining stones and making ballast for construction of roads in Nyanza since 2018.   In a press release, the company said it had built roads in the area and offered job opportunities to locals. According to the firm, it was undertaking its activities in line with the law.  “This was done according to section 58 of the Environmental Management and Coordination Act, Cap 387, which demands that any new project be subjected to an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) before its commencement,” the company said.  The company indicated that it sought for authority to blast from the government.  “All blasting activities at the approved quarry were undertaken by a highly experienced holder of a valid permit to use blasting materials appointed by the contractor and approved by the Mines and Geology office,” the company wrote.  The company indicated public participation and communication was done before every blasting activity.  “All people living/working in the vicinity of the blasting site were always evacuated to safer distances before the blasting process began,” the company wrote.  It said it also employed a wet crushing mechanism to ensure efficient air pollution control and complied with noise regulations.   Kitui County government bans limestone mining activity as locals decry environmental harm  Laikipia County holds first mining conference to discuss how best to capitalise on minerals  Homa Bay County Government comes to the rescue of displaced Karachuonyo flood victims By Kevin Oguttu | 12 hours ago By Isaiah Gwengi | 18 hours ago By Eric Abuga | 1 day ago By Harold Odhiambo | 2 days ago