Deputy President William Ruto visits Dennis Itumbi in hospital. [Photo, Courtesy]]  Deputy President William Ruto has sent best wishes to Dennis Itumbi as he recuperates in a Nairobi hospital after he was allegedly attacked by unknown people last week.  Itumbi was allegedly abducted last Thursday from a barbershop on Kiambu Road. He was later found dumped in Lucky Summer, Kasarani, with injuries on his body.  Itumbi once worked as Secretary of Innovation, Digital and Diaspora Communication in the Office of the President, but broke ranks with State House before crossing over to DP Ruto’s camp as a digital strategist.  On Tuesday, December 28, Ruto visited Itumbi in hospital, almost five days after the alleged abduction occurred. “Pole Dennis. Get well soon. God is the Almighty,” read a tweet on DP Ruto’s official Twitter handle.  The message was accompanied by a photo of DP Ruto standing near Itumbi’s hospital bed, while a hospital staff stood on the other side.  DP Ruto sharing a moment with Dennis Itumbi and a doctor at the Nairobi of Hospital. [Courtesy]  On Wednesday morning, December 29, Ruto took to his official Twitter page to suggest that police had a hand in Itumbi’s attack.  “[I] spent time with Comrade DI last evening, saw his heavily bandaged arm and legs, the result of torture by people who should have been there to protect him and us all. They have now turned violent and fatalistic after all the negative narratives, threats and blackmail against us failed.”  Itumbi is currently admitted at the city hospital’s critical care ward after he allegedly contracted pneumonia.  “My brother has been badly beaten. We thank God that he is alive. On his own account, he was arrested by police and beaten and tortured. Please pray for his recovery. Asanteni for your many prayers and support,” Itumbi’s brother, David, said on Twitter.  DP Ruto standing next to Itumbi's hospital bed. [Courtesy]  A section of politicians allied to DP Ruto also claimed, without proof, that Itumbi was beaten by the police.  “Glad to see our brother Itumbi alive. Sad to see him in such pain. Hopeful that he will bounce back stronger. Appalled that police officers who should be protecting him harmed him. May his tormentors, who are enjoying power, never know peace. Politics shouldn’t be done this way," Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said on Twitter.  Police have since denied the allegations. “Police have since launched an investigation with a view of establishing the circumstances surrounding the incident. We appeal to members of the public to be patient during the investigation and should, therefore, desist from speculation," read a statement by the National Police Service spokesperson Bruno Shioso.  By Moses Nyamori | 2 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 3 hours ago By Elvince Joshua | 4 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 6 hours ago