Transport CAS Wavinya Ndeti addresses worshipers after a church service at AIC Mwala, Machakos County on Sunday. [Erastus Mulwa, Standard]  Transport Chief Administrative Secretary (CAS) Wavinya Ndeti has allayed fears of a possible fallout between Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and President Uhuru Kenyatta ahead of the 2022 General Election.  Speaking on Sunday after church service at Africa Inland Church (AIC) Mwala in Machakos County, Wavinya said the latest political developments will not strain the relations between Kalonzo and President Kenyatta.  The Wiper boss supporters in his Ukambani backyard have expressed fear that his move to defy President Kenyatta's endorsement of ODM leader Raila Odinga for the presidency could strain his relationship with the Head of State. Wavinya’s remarks came barely hours after Kalonzo, alongside his One Kenya Alliance (OKA) principals during their meeting with leaders under Mt Kenya Unity Forum in Thika, ruled out the possibility of working with Raila.  During the meeting hosted by former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo, Kalonzo, Gideon Moi (Kanu), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and their Ford-Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula maintained that Raila should retire from active politics alongside Kenyatta come next year.  “As OKA we backed President Kenyatta’s peace truce with Raila under the handshake deal and peace prevailed in the country. To sustain that peace, Uhuru and Raila should retire together next year,” Kalonzo said.  But Wavinya expressed confidence that OKA, Raila and President Kenyatta will converge at some point ahead of the 2022 polls.  “I belong to the political union forged between Uhuru, Kalonzo and others and I urge Kenyans not to worry about the ongoing developments because the leaders will eventually work together. What we need to do now is to pray that we get a God-fearing leader as president,” said Wavinya.  The CAS cautioned Kenyans against getting sulked into high-voltage politics, saying political interests should not interfere with the peaceful coexistence among Kenyans.  “We should not allow political competition among leaders to divide us as Kenyans. We have a duty to preach peace and know that we will still need our country even after the election,” she said.  Wavinya who will contest for Machakos Governor seat in 2022 vowed to fix the shortage of drugs and other medical supplies in public health facilities in the county in the first 100 days if elected next governor.  “We have to get our priorities right. There have been many complaints about the shortage of drugs in our public hospitals and that will be my number one priority to address as governor,” she said.  The former Kathiani MP said she will set aside funds to empower registered self-help groups within Machakos to enable them to have the capacity to do business with the government.  Wavinya will face off with Machakos Deputy Governor Francis Maliti, Mavoko MP Patrick Makau, former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama, County Assembly Speaker Florence Mwangangi, first Speaker of the Machakos County assembly and veteran lawyer Bernard Mung’ata as well as city lawyer Kyatha Mbaluka who have declared interest to succeed Governor Alfred Mutua.  By Stephen Nzioka | 23 hours ago By Philip Muasya | 1 day ago By Phares Mutembei | 4 days ago By Phares Mutembei | 5 days ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.