In the new tariffs, which will take effect next week, domestic consumers will pay Sh2 per. [Courtesy]  The Ministry of Water has caved in to pressure from consumers and agreed to review the new tariffs published in August this year.  The ministry had proposed to increase water tariffs from 50 cents to Sh5 per unit, sparking protests from governors and other stakeholders.  But on Thursday, John Kinyanjui, a senior manager at the Water Resources Authority (WRA), said they had reviewed the tariffs downwards after consultations with stakeholders.  In the new tariffs, which will take effect next week, domestic consumers will pay Sh2 per unit while those using it for irrigation will pay Sh1 per unit.  Glowing tributes for tycoon Kibe as a visionary, mentor  Nairobi Water Queens have one hand on the trophy  My old-fashioned watermill has served me for 90 years, says miller  Plans to protect four water catchment areas on course Under the amended tariffs, the State agency is expected to collect over Sh4 billion annually, which will go towards enforcement of water abstraction rules.  Mr Kinyanjui, who is in charge of water resources, assessment and monitoring, termed the 50 cents charge per unit as inadequate to enforce their regulations across the country.  “The ministry has agreed to review the water tariffs from the proposed Sh5 to Sh2 and Sh1 for domestic and irrigation users, respectively,” he said in Naivasha.  Kinyanjui addressed the press when the Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) launched the Catchment to Tap (C2T) programme that seeks to address water security in catchment areas.  “We have in the past recorded conflicts due to water shortage as the country is classified as water-stretched. We should conserve the catchment areas,” he said.   KNUT Wrangles: Faction vows to go ahead with polls as Health Ministry issues KNUT greenlight  Maralal residents protest against water shortage that has been ongoing for two years now  Water Boost: World bank gives a grant of Ksh 32 million to boost water supply to Murang'a residents By Hudson Gumbihi | 25 minutes ago By Antony Gitonga | 6 hours ago By Caleb Atemi | 6 hours ago By Gilbert Kimutai | 6 hours ago