National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) Joseph Kimote at a past function. [File, Standard]  The National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) has announced a new price for purchasing a 90kg bag of maize across the country and told farmers to deliver their grains to the board’s depots.  The announcement dated December 29 indicated NCPB will start buying the produce at Sh3,000 per 90kg bag adding that the payment will be done within 24 hours.   The board’s managing director Joseph Kimote urged farmers harvesting and those who have already harvested to deliver their grains to the nearest depot, adding that NCPB was buying maize for commercial function.  Kimote said the Sh3,000 price will see farmers get value for their grains due to the accuracy of NCPB weighing services. He said as long as the grains to be delivered met Kenya Bureau of Standards (KEBS) Grade 1 and 2 standards, farmers were free to deliver.  “There are no administrative conditions for farmers to deliver maize as long as the produce meets KEBS Grade I and II standards,” said Kimote.  NCPB announced storage facilities at competitive rates with both Warehouse Receipt System (WRS) and regular warehousing available for farmers.  “The board is offering storage facilities at competitive rates and farmers can opt to store under the WRS and regular warehousing.”  The board also offers other grain post-harvest services such as drying, cleaning, grading and aflatoxin testing.  NCPB in November opened its doors for the purchase of current season maize harvests across the country.  The board started buying the produce at Sh1,305 per 50kg bag eliciting protests from farmers who said the price was low viewed against the rising costs of production.  Titus Maiyo, the NCPB Corporate Affairs Manager, however, said the board is purchasing maize on its commercial function for trade.  “The prices offered are based on prevailing market costs. The price being offered by NCPB is for its commercial function and not for Strategic Food Reserves. The price is based on the prevailing market prices. When the government decides to buy maize for the National Food Reserves, they will give a price for that together with accompanying conditions,” he said.  Maiyo also said the board is open for maize storage through its Warehouse Receipting System (WRS) for farmers who wish to store it for future sale.  By Judah Ben-Hur | 2 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 3 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 7 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura | 7 hours ago