Democratic Action Party of Kenya (DAP-K) leader Wafula Wamunyinyi, Agriculture CS Peter Munya, Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa and Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi during National Delegates Convention at Bomas of Kenya on December 14, 2021. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya says the Jubilee Party and Mt Kenya will support ODM leader Raila Odinga in next year's elections.  Mr Munya yesterday said Jubilee members are only waiting for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s guidance on the succession race.  “The President is already giving us the guidance. There is no question about it. We are now together heading to Canaan where Raila has always wanted to take us,” he said.   “Raila’s time is now. We are more than sure that he will form the next government.”  Munya was speaking during the launch of the Democratic Action Party of Kenya (DAP-K) at Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi, yesterday.  The party is led by former Ford Kenya officials Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu and Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi, who were named the secretary-general and party leader respectively. The two had unsuccessfully attempted a coup in Ford-Kenya to eject Wetang'ula from leadership.  Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa also attended the event ,   DAP-K also declared it's backing for Raila, who last week declared he would go for the presidency.  “The National Delegates Conference resolves that the party leadership engages the Azimio la Umoja movement with a view of forming a coalition,” said the party Chairman David Muchele.  Wamunyinyi said they left Wetang'ula's party because “our stay for the restoration of democracy was no longer tenable. It pains me that the party is now led by forces that frustrated the struggle for liberation.”  Wamalwa urged the party officials to forget about the past and focus on strengthening the party.  “They saw you climbing the mountain and moving from county to county and they claimed that you were selling the party. They had no idea that you were just hunting for your own good. But they will have their answer now," he said.  The CS asked the One Kenya Alliance principal Mudavadi to join Azimio la Umoja if he wants to be in the next government.  Wamalwa said Raila is the best placed to improve devolution and ensure peace.  Ford Kenya was founded by Jaramogi Oginga Odinga and Kijana Wamalwa, but has been dogged by leadership wrangles.  DAP-K chairman said the party is anchored on, among other priorities, agriculture, education, infrastructure and industrialisation.  “We have complied with current regulations by the Registrar of Political Parties and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. We are ready for election. Let’s join hands and steer this vehicle forward,” he said.  Also present at the launch were governors Wilberforce Otichilo of Vihiga and his Busia counterpart Sospeter Ojaamong, MPs Mpuru Aburi of Tigania East and Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja), and former MP and minister Noah Wekesa.  By Phares Mutembei | 10 minutes ago By Nathan Ochunge and Jackline Inyanji | 10 minutes ago By Patrick Beja and Nehemiah Okwembah | 10 minutes ago By Renson Mnyamwezi and Phares Mutembei | 10 minutes ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.