CS Eugene Wamalwa (R) is determined to convince Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula to honour the invite. [Benjamin Sakwa, Standard]  Some leaders from the Western region are piling pressure on Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi to attend the Bukhungu ll meeting tomorrow.  Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa is among the leaders determined to convince Mudavadi and Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang’ula to honour the invite.  Wamalwa said Mudavadi and Wetang’ula should spare time to attend the meeting, which he termed crucial and timely.   “Let Mudavadi and Wetang’ula put their differences with other leaders aside and turn up at Bukhungu,” said Wamalwa, who was in Malava Constituency.  He also urged residents to attend the meeting in large numbers.  Wamalwa said the Bukhungu ll meeting would unite the Mulembe nation and the Western region at large. “To my brothers, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula, please come, let us reason together. The greatest change begins at the family table, and Bukhungu is our family reasoning table. Let’s come together and look at the future together and see which path to take,” he said.  According to the CS, Bukhungu ll could give a solution to the deferred dream of Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) that can only be realised through Azimio la Umoja under Raila Odinga.  Wamalwa cautioned Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, saying that he has no authority to stop anyone from holding a meeting in Kakamega.  “Kakamega is the headquarters of Mulembe nation and bedroom for all of us. Senator Malala cannot purport to own Kakamega.  "When you start chest-thumping or resort to divisive politics, you are proving that you are not a good leader,” Wamalwa said.  Democratic Action Party Kenya (DAP-K) party leader Wafula Wamunyinyi, who accompanied Wamalwa, said the outfit was gaining momentum.  “As a party, we are ready to work with Raila under the Azimio la Umoja movement. Those who keep off Bukungu will have themselves to blame,” he said.   By Jacob Ngetich  | 1 hour ago By Phares Mutembei | 2 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 2 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 7 hours ago