Maendeleo ya Wanawake (Meru) Chairperson Kanana Nteere gives Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi the Order of Koome Njue (OKN), an award named after Njue who led the Ameru from their original home. [Phares Mutembei, Standard]  Members of the supreme council of Njuri Ncheke elders, political leaders, a cleric, sportsmen and artists were among those recognised in the inaugural Honours and Awards sponsored by the Meru County government.  Chief Justice Martha Koome, retired Methodist Church of Kenya presiding Bishop Lawi Imathiu, musician-cum environmentalist Kamanu M’Tuamwari, Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya and former Head of Civil Service and Secretary to Cabinet Francis Muthaura were awarded for their contribution to the community.  The awards committee chaired by Dr Gershon Mwiti celebrated Governor Kiraitu Murungi, his deputy Titus Ntuchiu, Ombudsman Florence Kajuju, climate change champion Mzalendo Mithika among others.  In a ceremony held at a Meru hotel, Dr Mwiti said his committee had received a list of nominees from individuals, institutions and organisations after which they embarked on a thorough vetting of the persons. “This means that the men and women being conferred honours today are Meru finest,” Mwiti stated.  The highest honour, the Order of Koome Njue (OKN) went to Governor Kiraitu for his distinguished service for the Meru people.  Njue is a legend famed for his heroics in leading the Meru community to immigrate from ’Mbwaa’, or Manda Island in Lamu, to their present locations in Meru and Tharaka Nithi counties.  The second highest honour, the Order of Kauara O' Bechau (OKB), which is named after the founder of Njuri Ncheke elders council went to DG Ntuchiu, County Assembly Speaker Joseph Kaberia and Njuri Ncheke chairman Linus Kathera.  Munya, who did not attend, was awarded the Order of Koome Njue (OKN) alongside Muthaura and human rights champion Gitobu Imanyara.  Bishop Imathiu and National Cohesion and Integration Commission Chairman Dr Samuel Kobia were conferred the Order of Mugwe (OM), awarded to a person who has provided outstanding services to the community beyond his or her normal activities.  CJ Koome, Ombudsman Kajuju, Public Service Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia and County Agriculture Executive Carol Mutiga were among those awarded the Distinguished Daughter of Meru (DDM).  By Victor Nzuma | 2 days ago By Patrick Vidija | 3 days ago By Philip Muasya | 4 days ago By Muriithi Mugo | 4 days ago