Since the birth of democracy, various forms of multiparty political systems have been introduced around the world. Today, therefore, we live in times when more countries than ever before decide on their leaders through multiparty elections—and where more people than ever before are governed by rulers of their ‘choice’.  Multiparty politics, however, is no guarantee for development. It may empower vulnerable groups, increase transparency, mediate conflict and achieve redistribution of income to the poor—but it may also give more influence to already powerful elites, marginalise the poor and minorities, and be used to mobilise ethnic and religious groups against each other. Hence, the good functioning of mature political parties is central for democratisation and development.  In democratic societies, political parties are, therefore “indispensable, voluntary and informal associations of society, where people share commonly understood values, customs and attitudes to their role in politics” though this is questionable in Africa, particularly Kenya, where politicians hop from one party to the other. They are products of and operate within economic structures and in a context of interests that are affected by and respond to the accumulation and distribution of goodwill and resources, including the wealth of society. As instruments of collective action, political parties are the creation of the political elite in a bid to control the resources and personnel of government in order to implement an “ideology or a political programme”. In competitive political systems, parties are organised by politicians to win elections; in authoritarian systems, they are organised to affect the attitudes and behaviour of the population.  Although they are part of the informal constitution of society, once they have contested legally sanctioned elections, political parties obtain power and formally, under the jurisdiction and formal ‘constitution’ of the State, obtain legitimacy and control the personnel and resources of the State. The rulers and political officials who emerged triumphant in free and fair elections constitute the governing political party (or coalition of parties). Kenya, just like any other country, has undergone its fair share of changes, positive or not, to achieve the above aspired role of political parties.  Its effect aside, but our independence was handed to us with so much mysterious activities that have never been explained and multiparty was the system. However, the same was short-lived and was arm-twisted by the first president by killing other parties and making Kenya one-party State de facto. After his death the predecessor completed mission by making Kenya one party State by law. Party became one and Kenya was one, you could only have one option and that in itself is a choice.  After a long push and pull, multiparty was granted in 1992, followed by division of opposition parties through threats and use of State machinery to ensure the ruling party does not face a united opposition front. After 2002 elections when the opposition united and defeated the ruling party, the country embarked on a reform process. The process aimed to get rid of an authoritative president have political parties that not easily manipulated into an individual’s company or a tribal group.   However, the reforms are now like one of the three seeds in the bible that fell on a rock and germinated but due to lack of enough soil and scorching sun could not grow fully and withered. So, the reforms fell on the rock (politicians), but due to lack of enough support it withered away and we were left with a dead plant. Kenya seems to have a workable system of political parties in that its requirements for registration are constitutionalised. The requirements make the process tedious and close to impossible for the majority except the mighty politicians. In fact, it is easier to buy a registered party, change the name and rebrand it than registering a new one.  To safeguard political and ensure they remain public institutions, the Constitution created the office of Registrar of Political Parties meant to regulate and manage control of affairs of political parties, as well as established a dialogue space that can bring together parties in the name of Political Parties Liaison Committee.  However, after all of these efforts, the human character (individual and community selfishness) has triumphed, curtailing the reforms' imaginable/intended successes, and what is left are toothless agents used to advance the interests of the ruling/State and political parties.  By Babere Chacha | 55 minutes ago By Oscar Plato | 55 minutes ago By Editorial | 55 minutes ago By Edwin Wanjawa | 1 day ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.