Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito Mugali (pictured) will spend a night in police custody.  The MP was arrested Thursday afternoon in Kakamega town.  Before the arrest, the lawmaker engaged police officers in plain clothes in running battles before he was accosted some 500 metres from the courts.  Kakamega County Criminal Investigations Officer James Lelia said Kizito failed to appear in court two months ago to answer to charges of malicious damage of property.  Do you think all is well with Uhuru’s withdrawal from public limelight?  MP in a spot over timber case  MP injured in violence at funeral  Senator condemns MP's arrest, says Jubilee buying ID cards from locals  “The warrant of arrest was issued two months ago, and the police have been looking for the MP. He will be arraigned tomorrow to answer the charges since the other eight accused persons have already been charged,” said Lelia.  Kizito is accused of leading other people in destroying property belonging to the Mudeku family at Vikutsa village in Kakamega East on February 2.  “He is accused of destroying houses, crops and a gate alongside the eight others,” said Lelia.  Residents, led by Kizito, pulled down structures and a barrier at the Vikutsa Primary School’s entrance.  Mudeku family, who claimed ownership of the disputed land, had constructed the structures and demanded that the school relocates.  On Thursday, police had a rough time arresting Kizito, who was in the company of a group of youths that attempted to block the arrest.  “The MP caused drama, and some of our officers were hurt in the process,” Lelia said.  “We managed to arrest at least two people, including his driver,” he added.  Last December, the Land Court in Kakamega delivered a judgement that granted the parcel to six beneficiaries of one family, but it has been chaotic whenever the family tries to get it from the school.  The court listed the legit owners of the land as Moses Abwoba, Sabeti Mudeku, David Amuhanda, Luka Mudegu, Daniel Luva and Benson Tigu.  “In January, we lost property worth Sh680,000 to vandalism. Our crops were uprooted and houses destroyed. My brother and I were assaulted by the community when we formally laid claim to the parcel,” Mudegu said in June.  jshilitsa@standardmedia.co.ke    By Benard Lusigi | 8 hours ago By Osinde Obare | 1 day ago By Brian Kisanji | 1 day ago By Benard Lusigi | 1 day ago