A former 2NK Sacco driver who lost his job after driving students smoking bhang to a police station has landed a job at the county government.  Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga on Tuesday promised to employ John Muthoni as a driver in the devolved unit during a meeting at the county headquarters.  The communication director in the governor’s office, Carol Nderi, confirmed the promise first publicised by Kahiga on his Facebook page.  She said the embattled driver was yet to be deployed in any particular department.  Two weeks ago Muthoni said he was sacked for driving the students to Sagana Police Station after they smoked in his vehicle.  In his Facebook post, the governor said he wished to celebrate the driver for reporting students to the police.  “We condemn drug abuse at the highest level. My government will offer you a position as a driver in one of our departments,” Kahiga said.  Muthoni said his problems started on November 17 when the students boarded his vehicle.  “As soon as the journey began, a strong smell of bhang hit the vehicle and upon checking the rearview mirror I saw students smoking and drinking alcohol,” Muthoni said.  He tried to warn them but the students threatened him.  “I decided to drive into the police station. However, the students jumped out the vehicle, with some leaving behind their belongings,” said the driver.  While Muthoni maintains he was sacked for allegedly ‘tainting the good image of the Sacco, the Sacco's board claimed he overcharged the students, which is against their regulations.  Chairman James Kahiro said the bus fare from Karatina to Nairobi was Sh400 per passenger but the driver only remitted Sh25O per passenger to the owner.  Kahiro and his team further claimed that Muthoni did not resume work until Friday, November 19, two days later.  When he was asked to explain why he did not remit the required cash he allegedly became unruly.  The Sacco officials said the driver reported the incident to the police with the management's blessings.  By Phares Mutembei | 6 hours ago By Timothy Kariuki and Jane Mugambi | 12 hours ago By Phares Mutembei | 16 hours ago By Jane Mugambi and Timothy Kariuki | 20 hours ago