Lawyer Miguna Miguna stuck at Airport in Berlin, Germany after the airline declined to have him board its plane to Nairobi. [Uwe Hauth, Standard]  Canada-based lawyer Miguna Miguna will be allowed to travel back to Kenya once he fills some requisite documents.  Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto said the Immigration officers in Berlin and Ottawa have been advised to process the lawyer's travel documents.  “We have since received confirmation from the Ministry of Interior to the effect that Department of Immigration has been directed to to instruct the immigration Officers in Berlin and Ottawa to issue Mr Miguna Miguna with travel documents upon him filing the requisite forms for those documents,” stated Ogeto, in a letter dated November 29.  Miguna Miguna to be issued with travel documents on condition that...  Judge to Miguna Miguna: Get valid travel documents before boarding flight  Court issues new directives for Miguna Miguna’s return   Miguna saga: It’s a shame how our leaders disregard the law Ogeto's letter was in response to Law Society of Kenya's (LSK) concerns on the High court ruling that directed that Miguna Miguna be allowed back to Kenya.    “This is in reference to your letter dated November 24, 2021, with which you served upon us a copy of the order issued by the Honourable Lady Justice Hedwig Ong’udi on 22nd November 2021," Ogeto wrote.  In the letter, Ogeto explained that upon receipt of the court order, Ministry of Interior and Foreign Affairs were advised. High Court had on November 22 ruled that Miguna travel documents be processed within 72 hours to allow him return to the country.  This, however, did not materialize with claims from the lawyer that the embassy had not formally received the orders by Lady Justice Hedwig Ong’udi. This response prompted a letter from LSK on November 24.      MIGUNA MIGUNA CASE: Attorney General expected in court to explain why orders not followed  "We have practised constitutional law longer than this boy, " Miguna's lawyers respond  "Miguna arudi" ODM's Raila Odinga on Miguna Miguna's return By Lynn Kolongei | 2 hours ago By Martin Ndiema | 2 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 2 hours ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 2 hours ago