Nakuru county Chief officer for Environment Mureithi Kiogora handing over tree seedlings to Trade unions of workers in the public service sector officials after a meeting in Nakuru on December 18, 2021. [Kipsang Joseph]  Trade unions representing workers in the public service sector have warned that the continued privatisation of public utilities will compromise service delivery.  Unions officials who met in Nakuru at an event organised by Public Service International (PSI), a global union federation for workers in the public sector, discussed the state of public services among them water, electricity and waste management.  Some of the services have been handed over fully or partially to private entities.   The unions included the Union of Kenya Civil Servants, Kenya Electrical Trades and Allied Workers Union and the National Union of Water and Sewerage Employees.  Kenya Union of Commercial, Food and Allied Workers and the Kenya County Government Workers Union were also represented.  Union of Kenya Civil Servants First Deputy Secretary-General Lameck Abraham said countries that had taken this route had left consumers grappling with poor quality services.  “There is a growing trend in privatization. Experience from different countries is that it leads to poor output,” said Abraham.  Abraham said privatisation results in private firms engaging in cost-cutting measures that deny consumers value for money as costs skyrocket.  “Privatisation is all about profiteering. This leads to a high cost of living which eventually affects the workers. Privatisation should not be an option when looking for efficiency,” added Abraham. He cited the health sector as among areas whose privatisation should a living example of the consequences of privatisation.  “Public hospitals have the best doctors and equipment but the charges are reasonable. The same quality is offered at exorbitant charges in private hospitals,” said Abraham.  He warned that this will push the cost of living high at a time Kenyans are grappling with financial constraints amid the Covid-19 pandemic.  Kenya Union of Commercial, Food and Allied Workers Nakuru Branch Secretary Thomas Ochola called on public services employees to give their best in serving consumers.  “Water and waste management systems is a challenge. Changing this only requires a change of attitude by workers,” said Ochola.  Coming when consumers have been raising concerns over being unfairly charged for public utility services, Ochola said workers have a duty to ensure correct bills are processed. “It is a call for all workers to ensure they uphold high levels of integrity in their work. Complaints on incorrect bills whether overcharged or undercharged should not arise. Addressing such loopholes will inspire confidence among consumers,” he said.  Nakuru County Chief Officer for Environment Muriithi Kiogora urged workers to be at the forefront in advocating responsible use of public services.   By Jael Mboga | 5 hours ago By James Omoro | 6 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 7 hours ago By Eric Abuga | 7 hours ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.