Kisumu street party revellers, December 24, 2021. [Collins Oduor, Standard]  Kenya, like the rest of the world, has heaved a sigh of relief on the waning sting of the Covid-19 pandemic despite the rapid spread of the new Omicron variant. Though the numbers of those testing positive in Kenya are on the increase, evidence suggests that the variant has been less severe.    According to the latest Government statistics, the positivity rate is at 34.2 per cent. The country also recorded eight more deaths, raising the death toll to 5,372.  Despite this, the Ministry of Health has reported fewer hospital and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) admissions of those affected. According to medical experts, those testing for the variant have mild illness, and in cases of admissions most do not end up requiring ICU care.  But given the ever changing nature of the virus, it is not a time to let down our guard. Kenyans must remain vigilant and continue observing the laid down health protocols. And this is why we are concerned by the holding of mass events, where thousands of people are allowed to attend, often times without following the laid down Covid-19 protocols.  A case in point is the recent Kisumu street party, which is reported to have led to a spike in infections, with data showing that the county recorded a 42 per cent infection rate, with 3.3 per cent fatalities, after the event.  And given that it is a political season, the mass rallies by politicians are a matter of concern that ought to be re-looked.  Passengers in public service vehicles must continue to follow protocols, that include wearing of masks and sanitising at every opportunity. The Government, apart from ensuring adequate provision of vaccines, must continue to sensitise Kenyans on the importance of taking the jab. This might call for aggressive campaigns across all information platforms.  And that is why we are encouraged by the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority's (KCAA) directive to have all passengers arriving from 211 countries to be armed with Covid-19 vaccination certificates, in addition to negative Covid-19 test certificates conducted within 72 hours of arrival regardless of country of origin  Kenyans traveling out of the country will also require Covid-19 passports, or vaccination certificate. In addition, they will be required to abide by the particular destination's travel, health and Covid-19 related requirements.  As a country, much has been done but we can still do more. It behoves the citizenry to join government efforts to ensure that at least 27 million people are vaccinated. As of December 28, a total of 9,723,787 vaccines had so far been administered. Of these, 5,704,996 were partially vaccinated while those fully vaccinated stpod at 4,018,791.  The uptake of the second dose among those who received their first dose was at 55.7 per cent, while the proportion of fully vaccinated adults stood at 14.8 per cent.  By Nicholas Asego | 1 day ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 3 days ago By Editorial | 5 days ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.