Transport, Infrastructure, Housing, Urban Development and Public works PS Joseph Njoroge and Dr. David Hunda when they addressed the press on December 1, 2021. [Jenipher Wachie, Standard]  Mass transport passengers are not yet required to produce Covid-19 vaccination certificates, the government has said.  Transport Permanent Secretary Joseph Njoroge said a lot needs to be done before that measure is implemented.  “Before we can reach that stage, we want to ensure that we have done enough campaigns for people to get vaccinated.  "We have a lot to do like facilitating and getting about 70 percent of the population vaccinated,” said Njoroge.  Kenya records 76 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours  Covid: Setback as two Gor Mahia players quarantined in Congo  How South African scientists spotted the Omicron Covid variant  Uhuru to wealthy nations: Covid will not be defeated by shutting us off   He said once a critical percentage of vaccination has been achieved, both drivers and passengers will be required to produce the certificates.  Njoroge spoke during a meeting with Long Distance Truck Drivers and Allied Workers Union in Nairobi.  The meeting, held to discuss the way forward on the testing and vaccination of truck drivers, was attended by stakeholders from the transport sector and Ministry of Health officials.  The meeting came a week after the Ministry of Health had said passengers would be required to produce vaccination certificates.  The PS said that once a decision is made, instead of carrying physical vaccination certificates, mobile phones will be used to scan the codes.  “We have representative from the Ministry of Health here so that they can facilitate as many vaccination centres as possible,” he said.  The PS said the ministry was aware that there are enough vaccines and anyone who has not been vaccinated has not made an attempt to get the jab.  “The essence of today’s engagement was for the leaders of long distance drivers to address the important issue of vaccination because they are vulnerable group,” said the PS  “What this transport fraternity has said is they want to set an example and demonstrate to the rest of Kenyans that they are willing to get vaccinated."  Through their chair Nicholas Mbugua, the drivers requested the government to increase testing and vaccination centres on highways along the northern corridor.  They also said that some health officers from the Kenyan side were demanding that drivers and conductors be tested at Malaba border even if they were fully vaccinated.  “Due to the low literacy levels of the truck drivers, they require proper sensitisation and so the union is requesting the ministries of Transport and Health to hold sensitisation workshops,” said Mbugua.  He added that this will help the truck drivers and those in the transport sector to accept and not resist vaccination and tests.    WHO says the omicron variant of Covid-19 virus poses high global threat  Ministry of Health receives 180,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine as a donation from Gov't of Greece  HEALTH WATCH: How Covid-19 misinformation worldwide has created panic by misleading masses By Dominic Omondi | 10 minutes ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 6 hours ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 6 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 6 hours ago