Bishop Desmond Tutu. [Courtesy]  This month, the world lost Bishop Desmond Tutu, one of the most unifying figures not only in South Africa, but also across the world.  The Nobel Peace Prize-winning clergyman, referred to as ‘South Africa’s moral conscience’ by some sources, was the quintessence of leadership, integrity and humanity, if his work as an anti-apartheid and later general human rights crusader is anything to go by. He demonstrated well the place of clergy in ensuring a just, inclusive society.  Some Kenyan clergy, unfortunately, have demonstrated the exact opposite of what the late Bishop advocated for. As the world mourns Tutu, the Methodist Church in Kenya has been embroiled in leadership wrangles that have seen members allied to different camps make serious allegations that point to lack of integrity on the part of the leaders.  These are not the only church leaders fighting over control over church property. Just recently, another congregation in Nairobi had to hold their sermon outside the church in what they termed protest against the church leader’s misappropriation of resources, including the proceeds from a school run by the church. The question that arises, therefore, is, in whose hands are we safe? Church leaders are supposed to set a good example for the rest of leaders, especially now that the country is gearing for the General Election in less than a year’s time.  They should be in the forefront to fight for integrity and honesty among the political class. During the post-poll chaos of 2007, the country looked to the clergy to intervene and bring the two conflicting parties to a dialogue in a bid to prevent any further loss of lives and property.  The religious leaders are expected to offer sober, objective counsel whenever there are disagreements both at the church and national level. They are expected to guide and correct the political leaders, their own political ideologies notwithstanding.  What we have increasingly witnessed in Kenya, however, is what seems like the pursuit of selfish gains by some church leaders at the expense of the wellbeing of the people they lead. Some leaders, unlike Tutu, have forgotten the meaning of servant leadership and are now determined to amass wealth at every cost.  Many of them would never question the political class, perhaps for fear of losing their favours. Consequently, many religious leaders have relinquished their oversight role, choosing instead to focus on growing their popularity and wealth. The fight for leadership positions and control of church property poses a major threat to the wellbeing of the larger society.   As the country gets ready for the General Elections next year, it is time for the clergy to reflect on the huge role they play in the achievement of peace during and after the elections. More than any other time, we now need religious leaders to demonstrate the virtues of selflessness and moral courage, standing up for what is right rather than just popular.  We need religious leaders who can use their pulpits to advocate for justice, honesty and integrity, not self-indulgent media thirsty individuals who, like the political class, resort to kicks and blows inside the houses of worship whenever they differ in opinion.  Dr Kiambati is a Communication trainer and consultant, Kenyatta University     By Njonjo Kihuria | 40 minutes ago By Zurab Pololikashvili | 1 hour ago By Mutiso Kiio | 6 hours ago By Nicholas Asego | 21 hours ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.