A section of leaders from Baringo County has expressed concern over continued cases of Gender-Based Violence in the region, with the majority of the cases going unreported.  The leaders observed that there were increasing cases of violence against men meted on them by women, but due to cultural beliefs and traditions, such cases are not reported and hence victims suffer in silence for fear of stigmatisation.  Similarly, cases of early marriages, female genital mutilation and sexual violence that includes rape, defilements and sodomy apparently are also too common in the County.   Speaking during the ongoing two-week-long cam­paign of activism against Gender-Based Violence (GBV) to create awareness on the vice, the leaders have called for concerted efforts to tackle the vices.   Marigat Sub County Administrator Ms Hellen Juma, Muchungoi condemned the crimes and outdated cultural practices, and hence challenged local residents to embrace education.  "Education is the only solution to this vice. We also urge our people to report such cases to the police since this is happening and no action is being taken" she said.  Speaking during the fete hosted at Kabel trading centre, the leader lamented that apart from the sexual crimes, the number of men being battered by their wives was increasing, but victims often opt to remain silent.  "They are now turning to suicide since they fear reporting such cases. We have witnessed men being battered by their wives in the recent past and they do not report, " noted Ms Juma.  Muchongoi Officer Commanding Station Simon Ndiramgu said that reports indicated that about 85 per cent of women and girls experience various forms of violence against them, although the majority of the cases are not reported due to lack of service providers and stigma.   "Some of them are inflicted with life-threatening injuries and living with psycholog­ical trauma but they do not report. We urge residents to cooperate with us to end this vice," he noted  He called for concerted efforts from all stakeholders to end the vice which they observed has caused untold sufferings to women, men, and children alike.  By Hudson Gumbihi | 1 hour ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 2 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 2 hours ago By Dennis Kabaara | 3 hours ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.