A pilot was yesterday charged with obtaining Sh1.6 million by pretending he was in a position to lease a football field at Kilimani Primary School in Nairobi.  Abdikadir Abbas Sugow, who appeared before Milimani Chief Magistrate Wendy Kagendo, is said to have committed the offence on diverse dates, between June 1, 2020, and August 30, 2020, in Westlands sub-county, Nairobi, jointly with others who were not before the court.  Sugow was reported to have illegally collected the money from one Margaret Delorme.  He faced another charge of forgery. The charge sheet indicated that on June 3, 2020, at an unknown place within the country, Sugow forged a lease agreement of a football field at Kilimani Primary School claiming it was a genuine lease agreement that had been signed and issued by the Ministry of Education.  Two widows face charge of obtaining Sh283,368 to facilitate workers travel to Qatar  Sisters defy culture to inherit father's land  Persons encroaching on catchment areas told to leave now or face eviction  Reprieve for tycoon after court halts jail sentence over land Sugow who denied the two counts faced the third count, alongside two businessmen, of being in possession of handcuffs, property of disciplined forces.  The court heard that Sugow, together with Hussein Sheik Ali and Sadiq Hussein Mohammed were found with handcuffs on November 30, 2021, around 8.30 pm at Rubis Petrol Station along Ojijo Road in Westlands, Nairobi.  The defence team pleaded with the court to release the suspects on lenient bail terms. The lawyers told the court that the complainant filed the case after differing with the first accused over matters related to a relationship.  "Your honour, this is a matrimonial issue as the complainant is a lover or wife of the first accused and the whole truth will come out as the case progresses," said the defense.  They were each released on a bond of Sh800,000 or alternatively pay a cash bail of Sh400,000.  The case will be mentioned on December 16 and the hearing will start on February 2.   Echesa granted bail in Sh39b gun fraud case but to spend the weekend in custody  How Echesa roped DP William Ruto in Sh39b gun fraud case  Pastor Ng'ang'a to lose church land, Kenya Railways claims land was grabbed By Augustine Oduor | 2 hours ago By Collins Kweyu | 10 hours ago By Collins Kweyu | 1 day ago By Paul Ogemba | 1 day ago