ODM leader Raila Odinga flanked by Awendo MP Walter Owino addressing Awendo town resident at Awendo bus pack on December 2, 2021. [Caleb Kingwara, Standard]  A stage is well set again for a big confrontation between the Kuria and the Luo of Migori County over next year’s presidential elections. The Kuria, who are minority, have historically distanced themselves from associating with the Luo for several reasons. One, over their cultural and ritual differences and secondly over their political behaviour during elections. In fact, the two communities have never voted as a block. The current problem is the fact that Kuria are slowly aligning themselves with Deputy President William Ruto while the Luo majority are inclined to support ODM leader Raila Odinga. In Fact, some leaders in Migori have accused Ruto of favouring the Kuria while in his tours and ignoring Luos. Migori is one county that has long been identified by the NCIC as a melting pot for ethnic tensions or a spot of devolution flash point.  These differences are not new. In fact, during the colonial rule, the Kuria had petitioned the British to allow them defy geography and share a Kisii location of Nyaribari, which they were granted from 1937 till 1960s when the Kenyatta government rejected the arrangement, saying the Kuria could only be geographically administered from Homa Bay in South Nyanza together with their Luo neighbours.   Accused of “tyranny against the minority”, Migori has been on a long warpath with this ethnic community since 1907 when this town was gazetted. Thus, one of the main areas of concern have been the fears of marginalisation that has persisted over many years. In October 2017, a citizen filed a petition in Parliament, demanding that the Kuria be recognised as a marginalised group so as to “safeguard the rights of the minorities and marginalised”. Whether this was granted or not, the fact remains that the Kuria are historically a marginalised group that needs very special government attention. Despite being a veritable breadbasket for the country, political economy of this area complicates the destiny of these people. They have been plagued with endemic poverty, poor infrastructure, illiteracy, massive unemployment and have nurtured considerable wealth, which they have barely benefited from.  Having said that, in my view, it is wrong for the Kuria to continue exclude themselves from working with their Luo counterparts. This is very unhealthy as they find themselves in one county. Politically the Kuria must be very strategic to vote as a block and plan uniformly with their Luo counterparts. This way, they would jointly share equal opportunities created by the county government. When we talk of the majority, the Luos form three quarters of the Migori population.  But the fact is in recent times, the Luos have always favoured the Kuria in many respects, especially since the implementation of the 2010 Constitution. At some point, the Kuria were given the Senate and woman representative seats, several executive appointments and the position of deputy governor but still the Kurias gave Uhuru Kenyatta more votes than they did to Raila. This was seen as a betrayal of the trust the Luo had for the Kuria. While it is true that the Kuria occupy a disadvantaged position as minorities, they must find some working formula with the majority. While it is not possible for a new county to be created for them, a forge of unity is necessary to cure or end this endemic relationship.  Dr Chacha teaches at Laikipia University  By  Ahmed Maalim Adow  | 55 minutes ago By Oscar Plato | 55 minutes ago By Editorial | 55 minutes ago By Edwin Wanjawa | 1 day ago