ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi with his wife Tessie Shangatti (right) during the requiem for the late Rosabella Jerono at Friends Church, Ngong road. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  One Kenya Alliance (OKA) principals have allayed fears of a possible fallout and affirmed their commitment to field a presidential candidate in the 2022 polls.  Appearing for the first time in public together, after a period of speculation that Kanu chairman Gideon Moi, ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka and Senator Moses Wetang’ula (Ford-Kenya) could be reading from different scripts regarding their mission and unity, they have reaffirmed their commitment.  This follows Deputy President William Ruto’s calls to Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to join his UDA, during his just concluded two-day vote hunt mission in western turf.   Similarly, their reaffirmation comes at a time when they have alleged there is external pressure to back ODM leader Raila Odinga who last Friday officially entered the State House race, launching the ‘Azimio la Umoja’ movement.  “The bells are ringing all over. Some are ringing good bells, others are ringing dangerous bells but we want to ring the bells of hope in this country. We want Kenya to remain united and focused and not to be distracted after the elections,” said Wetangula.  The leaders spoke at the memorial service of Mudavadi’s step-mother Rosebella Jerono Mudavadi in Nairobi.  Wetangula said their focus is to ensure the August 2022 elections will be free, fair and verifiable.  This was the co-principals first public meeting after Raila’s presidential race launch at Kasarani Sports centre, where only Senator Gideon was in attendance.  The Ford Kenya leader said they’ll remain united to the end with every principal carrying the interest and the vision of the group.  “Our appeal to our supporters is no to watch the game from the periphery and criticise. We promise that OKA will give you a flag bearer,” said Wetangula.  The OKA partners dismissed speculations of joining other political outfits with Kalonzo noting that OKA is the best outfit to form the next government.  “We are together as OKA and this is best team that will hold this nation,” said Kalonzo.  However, Mudavadi and Gideon Moi avoided politics at the event.  The Kanu chairman condoled with Mudavadi’s family,  eulogising his step-mother as an outstanding and committed woman.  “She was an intelligent and a charismatic pillar. She looked after us when she worked with my father,” said the Baringo senator.  Other political leaders present include MPs Alfred Agoi (Sabatia), Kivai Ogesi (Vihiga), Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale) and Vihiga Woman Representative Beatrice Adagala  “We believe OKA is team that will save Kenya and take the country to the next level. We are a third force and we have to ensure that the issue of two-horse race will no longer be there,” Adagala.  Sabatia MP lauded Mudavadi’s decision not to back ODM’s leader’s presidential bid.  “We have seen alot of people abusing him but they should know that he has a right to take a position,” said Agoi.  Mudavadi on his part eulogised his step-mother as a uniting figure in the family.  “We thank God that we have two mothers who did a good job in taking care of all of us to the extent that you couldn’t even differentiate who is the biological mother,” said the ANC leader.  Her death came a year after the death of her co-wife Hannah Mudavadi in December 2020.  Rosebella died on November 24 while undergoing treatment in the US. She will be buried on Saturday.  By Biketi Kikechi | 3 hours ago By Benard Sanga and Stanley Mwahanga | 3 hours ago By Brian Kisanji | 3 hours ago By Renson Mlegwa Mnyamwezi | 6 hours ago