Some of the women politicians who attended the event.  Women political aspirants have benefited from a three-day training programme ahead of next year's General Election.  Federation of Women Lawyers (Fida)-Kenya in partnership with Womankind Worldwide conducted the training, that attracted more than 350 aspirants.    Dubbed the woman leadership academy, it seeks to increase public discourse on the role of women and persons with disabilities in political leadership pre and post 2022 polls. This training also looked at different aspects such as sharing experiences of current legislators, understanding political party processes, campaign strategies, mental wellness and media training that are crucial to women aspirants.  Fida has challenged women to vie for seats to achieve the two-thirds gender rule.  In August, Fida launched Vote-A-Dada, a campaign that seeks to push for more women to go all the way to the ballot.  Fida aims to increase the number of women in the six elective positions (President, MP, senator, Woman Rep, governor and MCA) in the 2022 elections.  Kirinyaga Governor Ann Waiguru, who was the chief guest, told women to desist from fighting each other and unite regardless of party affiliation.  “Our first agenda is Kenyan women then political agenda follows. We must commit to actively champion, mobilise negotiate and implement what we all know is needed to have the share we need of women in Kenya,” Waiguru said  She promised to use her experience and connections to mentor women to come out and vie for elective posts.  “As a senior woman politician, I am committed to use any available opportunity to give our women hope,” she said.  “We will support the Vote-A-Dada campaign as it will integrate the inter-sectional participation for women in the country to demand action from the State, the Legislature, and all other governance institutions in promoting women's leadership,” she added.  By Nehemiah Okwembah | 5 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 12 hours ago By Wellingtone Nyongesa | 12 hours ago By Barrack Muluka | 1 day ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.