Deputy President William Ruto accompanied by Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok, his counterpart from Uasin Gisgu Jackson Mandago and other leaders are welcomed by traditional dancers when they arrived to address a public rally in Lodwar town on December 10, 2021. [Peter Ochieng, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto and his allies last evening dismissed ODM leader Raila Odinga’s declaration to run for the presidency in next year’s General Election.  Speaking at this year’s Tobong’u Lore Cultural Festival in Lodwar that was attended by  Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok, his Uasin Gishu counterpart Jackson Mandago and Garissa Township MP Aden Duale, the leaders said Raila has, since 1997, “shown that he has no strategy to clinch the presidency.”  They spoke moments after Raila declared his bid at the Moi Sports Centre Kasarani. He also launched the Azimio la Umoja Movement.   Ruto said he was ready to battle it out with Raila in the August 9, 2022 contest, and expressed confidence of beating President Uhuru Kenyatta’s handshake partner.  “You all know that I will be squaring it out with that man who uses riddles. When you look at him, you can easily make a conclusion of what will happen (in the 2022 polls). He contested with retired President the late Daniel Moi, Mwai Kibaki and President Uhuru and he lost to all of them. Do you think he will defeat me?” Ruto asked.  Ruto, who drummed up support for his bottom-up economic model, said Raila “has proved that he lacks the strategy to convince Kenyans to vote him.”  “Currently, we have 160 MPs supporting the Hustler Movement. All MPs from Turkana, except one, are supporting our agenda.  “We now have a national party that will form the next government,” he said. He faulted the ODM leader for allegedly promoting the creation of regional parties.  “How can one claim to be uniting Kenyans while encouraging the creation of ethnic political parties then, in the end, purport to form a coalition of tribal parties?” posed Ruto.  Governor Nanok, while downplaying Raila’s declaration, said Raila’s handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta did not benefit blocs such as Turkana. He said Turkana leaders and residents “are changing their political matrix” and will join UDA.  “Ruto has made me his presidential campaign manager because of the trust he has in me and my community. We will be closer to power and our issues will be addressed easily,” he said.  Turkana South MP James Lomenen, Daniel Epuyo Nanok (Turkana West) and Christopher Nakuleu (Turkana North) also attended.  By Obare Osinde | 3 hours ago By Nikko Tanui | 11 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 1 day ago By Lynn Kolongei | 1 day ago Subscribe to a 1-year plan and get a 50% discount before the 1st of January 2022!