DP William Ruto addresses residents of Bisil market in Kajiado County. [DPPS]  Deputy President William Ruto starts a three-day tour of Nyeri County today, a week after ODM leader Raila Odinga visited.  In a move that appears meant to erase Raila's gains, Ruto will tour all the constituencies and spend two nights in the county.  Governor Mutahi Kahiga, who hosted the former premier, yesterday dismissed claims by the DP's allies that he was to formally join their camp.    Two Ford-K faction leaders warm up to Raila, promise a new outfit   Mt Kenya governors planning for ‘super alliance’ to back Raila  Ruto visits Nyeri again and donates millions to groups  What if Ruto says ‘Raila tosha’ in the 2022 poll contest? "Hizi ni siasa za pesa nane which I don't practice (This is cheap politics)," he said in a text message.  Ruto's camp led by Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua also claimed two local MPs - including  Mukurwe-ini's Anthony Kiai - would be crossing over to the United Democratic Alliance (UDA).   But Kiai dismissed the claims, saying by February, it will be clear which aspirant Mt Kenya region will be backing. "For now I'm with President Uhuru Kenyatta and I believe people have a grace period of at least two months to make those decisions," he said.  A tentative programme shows Ruto will meet various groups. He is expected to meet the governor and MPs in some of the events. They include a fundraiser for 42 women groups in Kieni and at the Nyeri ACK Cathedral on Sunday, and another church service at the AIPCA Kiandu in Tetu.  Kieni MP Kanini Kega said he will be mobilising crowds for the functions, but with conditions. "Two leading presidential contenders have in the past had a bone to chew with our community but we must gauge their temperaments to understand who is good for us," he said.  Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu, another player in Raila and President Kenyatta's camp, said the DP had been making many tours countrywide but leaving little impression.  Yesterday, Ruto was in Kajiado County where he insisted on his plan to set aside Sh100 billion to create employment.  Speaking in Ilbisil town, Ruto said the creation of four million jobs per year will be top of his priority. ''Next year when we form government, priority number one will be to set aside Sh100 billion. The money will be spent on housing, value addition and manufacturing," he said.  He attended a service at the Faith Evangelical Church and held a rally at Kimunka in Ngong.   Musalia: Don't use school buses for political activity  Tension still high in Tot, Elgeyo Marakwet county following recent bandit attack that left four dead  DP Ruto witnesses Waiguru-Ngirici supremacy war By Boniface Gikandi | 1 hour ago By John Shilitsa | 2 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 2 hours ago By Roseline Obala and Steve Mkawale | 2 hours ago