Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  A woman has sued Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina over child upkeep.  The woman want the Ole Kina compelled to pay Sh200,000 monthly upkeep for her one-year old son she claims was born out of their relationship with the senator.  Through lawyer Kephar Ojijoh, the woman claimed the senator is the biological father of the child but has refused to take parental responsibility when she is unemployed and has no means to take care of the baby.  Judge: No sense in in jailing parents over child upkeep  Use of police officers to enforce child custody orders declared illegal   Media locked out of Dominic Wamugunda’s child upkeep case  Media locked out of Dominic Wamugunda’s child upkeep case “The woman is unemployed and has no means to take care of the minor. It is only fair that the court orders him to pay the Sh200,000 monthly upkeep since he is a man of means being a senator and businessman,” said Ojijoh.    The woman, in her affidavit, swore that she met Ole Kina in September 2019 and soon after they begun a relationship that did not last long.  She said that she conceived in January 2021 and when she informed the senator, he cut off their communication and refused to see her from that moment on.  “I struggled with the pregnancy alone until October 22 2020 when I delivered. He did not offer me any financial assistance or emotional support during the whole period and was even absent during the birth of his child,” she swore.  She stated that when the child was born, she reached out to the senator but he refused and maintained the silence. She swore that she has been left to cater for all the child’s needs.  “He has shown no interest in taking care of the minor and has severally demonstrated that he is not concerned with the child’s welfare when he is a man of means with steady income,” she stated.  Nairobi Children’s Court Chief Magistrate C Oluoch directed the application be served on the senator for his response before the hearing on January 11, 2022.   HOUSE OF BETRAYAL: Why does ODM want Senator Ongeri as CPAIC chair? |INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  HOUSE OF BETRAYAL: Was ODM party right to de-whip Senator Ole Kina? INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  Senator Ledama Ole Kina speaks out on ouster by ODM By Lynn Kolongei | 2 hours ago By Martin Ndiema | 2 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 2 hours ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 2 hours ago