Chief Justice Martha Koome says the Judiciary has put in place a committee on elections to train judges, judicial officers and staff on efficient mechanisms to handle election disputes. [File, Standard]  Chief Justice Martha Koome has urged the media to avoid being used by political actors, and instead promote the common good and public interest during the electioneering period.  Speaking on Friday, December 3 during the fourth annual Kenya Editors Guild (KEG) convention in Naivasha, the chief justice challenged journalists to speak truth to power.  “The media must speak with its own voice and not merely echo the voice of the political actors. This will necessitate embracing a ‘more activist role’ that involves asserting the media’s own voice in utterances and policy proposals by political actors,” she said.  Koome said the media and the Judiciary’s acts of commission and omission were blamed for the escalation of violence after the 2007 General Election.  Martha Koome: Judiciary has begun to gain from better ties with other State actors   We must respect court orders to preserve our democracy and rule of law  Senator Isaac Mwaura back in the House as Judiciary hailed for fair decision  Why employers will think twice before dismissing ailing employees To avert post-poll chaos, the chief justice said the Judiciary has put in place a committee on elections, which has developed a comprehensive work plan to train judges, judicial officers and staff on efficient mechanisms to handle election disputes.  “We learnt painful lessons from the 2007/2008 experience, and have since endeavoured to build public confidence and trust in the Judiciary’s ability to fairly and justly determine electoral disputes,” she said.  The CJ further said that the Judiciary was engaging other stakeholders on the need for adequate funding and provision of other facilitative infrastructure to ensure optimal conditions for the timely and just determination of electoral disputes.  The Kenya Editors Guild president, Churchill Otieno, said media managers will engage the Legislature to ensure MPs are involved in the plan by Parliament to change the laws affecting the operation of the media.  “KEG is trying to engage MPs to ensure the interest of the public and the media to enjoy a free press is maintained,” he said.  The theme of this year’s Editors’ Guild convention was “Electoral Accountability Agents and the Public Interest”.   Uhuru vs Judiciary: High Court deals the president another blow by quashing Uhuru's Executive order  Dr. Mukhisa Kituyi's take on the war between the Executive vs Judiciary & the troubled Mumias  War pitting the Executive and the Judiciary has escalated after the 2017 general elections By Betty Njeru | 1 hour ago By PSCU | 1 hour ago By Betty Njeru | 3 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 6 hours ago