Governor Mwangi wa Iria addressing the press after the BBI report was endorsed by Murang’a County Assembly. February 23, 2021. [Boniface Gikandi, Standard]  Presidential aspirant and Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria has been meeting delegations to solidify his support ahead of next year's elections.  The second term governor has met with delegations from Nyanza, Mt Kenya and Rift Valley.  On Thursday, Mr Iria (right) met with leaders from Maa and Luhya communities in Nairobi. The leaders are understood to be planning to join Iria's Usawa Kwa Wote Alliance, fearing being rigged out in the nominations in other political outfits.  The governor has also branded vehicles and erected billboards across the country popularising his candidature and Usawa Kwa Wote Party.  Mt Kenya governors planning for ‘super alliance’ to back Raila  Mt Kenya leaders issue Raila 10 conditions for their endorsement   Kiraitu launches party, roots for formation of coalitions  Iron Lady Martha Karua leads Mt Kenya in deal with OKA “I have about 130 aspirants for parliamentary seats and 1,125 for MCA slots. There are also several present and former governors and senators seeking certificates from the party,” said Iria.  In Murang'a, there are MCA and senator candidates lined for nominations under Usawa Kwa Wote. On Friday, the governor met leaders and businessmen from Nairobi County during which he outlined his agenda and vision.  He invited like-minded political parties to the Usawa Kwa Wote Alliance. “I will kick off national campaigns in January during which I will share my manifesto with Kenyan voters,” he said, explaining he is passionate about health, ECDE and agriculture among other programmes meant to uplift the living standards of rural fork.  Meanwhile, ANC deputy party leader Ayub Savula said party leader Musalia Mudavadi had been visiting the region since June and has made inroads. “We have been holding meetings with leaders in various parts of the country and particularly Murang’a, popularising our aspirant who is a member of One Kenya Alliance initiative," he said, adding that Mudavadi will visit Murang'a town on December 17.   Senator Gideon Moi calls upon the Mt. Kenya region leaders to join the One Kenya Alliance  Rift in Mt. Kenya with Kikuyu Elders divided over Muturi's installation as spokesman of the region  Mt. Kenya Battle: Section of leaders from Mt. Kenya East threaten to chart their own political path By John Shilitsa | 2 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 2 hours ago By Roseline Obala and Steve Mkawale | 2 hours ago By Ndungu Gachane | 2 hours ago