People having fun at Pirates Public Beach in Mombasa County on Saturday 25th December 2021, during Christmas celebrations. [Kelvin Karani, Standard]  Despite the stressful pandemic times, Mombasa continued to attract Kenyan and foreign tourists over the Christmas festivities.  Three public places that have withstood the test of time to be crowd pullers — Kibarani Park, Mama Ngina Waterfront Park and Jomo Kenyatta beach — were teeming with a sea of humanity as Kenyans and visitors ushered in Christmas.  At the once Mombasa Municipal dumpsite, Kibarani, which was an eyesore and located at the very entrance of Mombasa city, scores of people flocked the now attractive site to unwind and make merry. Mr Francis Juma, a resident of Miritini Vikobani who was unable to travel to his rural home in Bura, Taita Taveta, for holidays decided to take his family for a full-day outing at the site.  ‘’It is a well-tendered site with lots of interesting attractions here,’’ he said.    Linda Wairimu, a student pursuing environmental studies at a local university, said she was mesmerised by the way the new developers had turned the 20-acre parcel into “some form of Disneyland”.  ‘’It is a nice place to relax,’’ she said.  Absolute care was taken to ensure that past garbage that had been compacted during ground refilling did not find its way out. Developers say a superliner was poured across the 20-acre piece of land to seal outlets that emitted the gas.   Apart from some 2000 mangrove tree seedlings planted on one edge of the park that borders the ocean creek, more than 500,000 plant species such as Ashok trees, Christmas Palm trees, Jacaranda trees, Bougainvillea, coconut trees, Sisal and Casuarina have been planted.   A 75-metre fountain was also installed on the seafront to keep the water in motion and stop mosquitoes from breeding.   Ablution blocks and plumbing systems had to be installed to prevent waste from washing into the ocean waters.  To add aesthetic beauty into the revamped park, a landscape professional was sourced and with his recommendations, life-sized sculptures of different animals such as rhino, wildebeest and antelopes were mounted on top of artificial grass.   Another of Mombasa’s crowd-pullers is the Mama Ngina Waterfront Park which is an iconic seaside public park sitting on a 26 acre and overlooking the Kilindini channel.  It cost Sh460 million to be revamped and now has landscaped and paved the waterfront with concrete blocks, a state-of-the-art amphitheatre, the Kilindini Cultural Centre, ablution blocks and two main gates leading to the park.   Tourists visiting the park will have a choice to treat themselves to cultural exhibitions, shopping, dining at open-air fresco restaurants and cafes or relaxing at the breathtaking expansive site.  The project is designed to support a 24-hour economy and if it was not for the Covid 19 pandemic that interrupted business after the government issued restrictions to contain virus spread.  The Jomo Kenyatta Public Beach which has been targeted for renovations and remodelling by Mombasa County estimated to cost Sh300 million, has also continued to attract crowds of holidaymakers from all ages.  Stephen Mwadime, a tube vendor at the popular site urged the county government to fast-track upgrade works so that traders who eke their living from conducting their businesses there can continue with their work unabated.  National Museum of Kenya and the county government have also established a new recreational park at Fort Jesus at a cost of Sh300 million to add on to the local tourist attractions.  By Daisy Omondi | 11 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 1 day ago By Patrick Beja | 2 days ago By Marion Kithi | 2 days ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.