Counting of votes is underway at Kanywee Primary School polling station.   Counting of votes is underway at Kanywee Primary School polling station in Kiagu ward central in Meru county.   Jubilee’s Samson Magambo is facing off with United Democratic Alliance (UDA’s) Simon Kiambi and Patrick Kathurima of Chama cha Uzalendo.  Other contenders in the by-election are Milton Mwenda-Chama cha Kazi, Kinyua Nabea-Ford Kenya, Douglas Bundi-Safina party, Scholastica Mwendwa-PDU, Haroun Kaburu-Maendeleo Chap Chap, Richard Marete-ERP.  Unofficial results from Kauthene primary placed the UDA candidate in the lead. Unofficial results from Kauthene primary placed the UDA candidate in the lead with 268, followed by CCK 41 and Jubilee 31.  The by-election is occasioned by the death of MCA Eunice Kariithi of cancer in May this year.   The poll is a litmus test for UDA.  The poll is a litmus test for UDA following the recent visits by Deputy President William Ruto to the area.  About a month ago, Ruto opened a new UDA office at Chaaria during his last two-day tour of Meru.  It is an election that has attracted the attention of local kingpins.  It is an election that has attracted the attention of local kingpins.  On one corner is the UDA camp led by Meru Senator Mithika Linturi and Central Imenti MP Moses Kirima, key allies of the DP.   On the other corner is Agriculture CS Peter Munya’s brigade which includes several MCAs who campaigned for Magambo of Jubilee.  Munya’s camp was able to convince National Ordinary People Empowerment Union candidate Nathan Gitonga to back out of the race in favour of the Jubilee candidate.  Kiagu is one of the four wards in Central Imenti, and one of the pressing calls by residents is a long-standing border dispute pitting them and residents across the river in Tharaka Nithi.  [Additional reporting by George Kaimenyi,Phares Mutembei and Renson Mnyamwezi]  By Biketi Kikechi | 3 hours ago By Benard Sanga and Stanley Mwahanga | 3 hours ago By Brian Kisanji | 3 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura | 3 hours ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.