OKA principal leaders dance at a rally in Thika technical grounds on December 19, 2021. [David Gichuru, Standard]  ODM leader Raila Odinga should retire together with President Uhuru Kenyatta, whose term ends next year, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has said.   He and other One Kenya Alliance (OKA) leaders yesterday dismissed claims that the 2022 election will be a two-horse race pitting Raila against Deputy President William Ruto.  They said the alliance will also field a presidential candidate.  Kalonzo criticised the President for openly indicating that Raila was his preferred successor.  He said Raila should go home next year and give room for other politicians to run for the presidency in the August election.  “We respect you a lot, and you should also show respect to Kenyans. The two of you came together and brought peace in the country, but to maintain that peace, as Uhuru goes home he should be joined by Raila,” Kalonzo said.   He spoke during an OKA principals tour of Kiambu, during which they were hosted by former governor William Kabogo.   The leaders, who included Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Gideon Moi (Kanu), Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya) and Kalonzo (Wiper) called for an end to the two-horse race narrative, saying they, too, will field a candidate in the presidential race.   They also announced they will work with the Mount Kenya Unity Forum (MKUF), led by Narc Kenya’s Martha Karua, on the 2022 elections.   The leaders are working to craft a coalition agreement and field a presidential candidate.   Kalonzo said they will join hands with MKUF for unity of purpose and their competitors should watch out.   “We are demystifying ridiculous politics. Can you imagine OKA working together with Mt Kenya Unity Forum? That is the Kenya that everyone has been looking for and we mean business,” he said.  The principals also faulted some aspirants for hoodwinking Kenyans with all sorts of promises and urged the electorate to make careful choices on the leaders they elect next year.  “This is the future of politics in this country. Don’t play cards with your lives. Elect sane leaders. Do not be deceived in broad daylight,” said Gideon.  Mudavadi criticised leaders out to woo OKA principals, saying they shall not be distracted.  He said this was proof that other presidential aspirants have acknowledged the power of OKA.  “Oka is not a pushover. They have now started taking us serious,” Mudavadi said a day after Raila reached out to him.  He noted that the Jubilee government had achieved a lot in terms of infrastructural development but had plunged the country into a debt crisis.  “The next government will be in a crisis due to the huge debts that the administration is leaving behind. In 2022 let us correct this mess,” Mudavadi said.  Speaking during the burial of Mudavadi’s step-mother, Mama Rosebella Mudavadi, in Vihiga on Saturday, Raila had expressed confidence that his path and the ANC leader’s would meet again ahead of the polls.  But Mudavadi yesterday downplayed the ODM leader’s overture.  “Raila came and humoured people. I cannot say at this time and point that we have made any decision other than the fact that we as OKA are moving forward and we shall build our momentum and we are open to have as many people on board,” he said.   Ruto has also been reaching out to Mudavadi and Wetang’ula.  By Philip Mwakio | 25 minutes ago By Moses Nyamori | 25 minutes ago By Willis Oketch and Joachim Bwana | 25 minutes ago By Oscar Obonyo | 4 hours ago