Council of Governors Chairperson Martin Wambora (centre), Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi (right) and CoG CEO Mary Mwiti shortly after addressing a press conference in Nairobi. [David Njaaga, Standard]  The Council of Governors has protested a proposed reduction of county revenue on recurrent budget ceilings for the 2022/23 financial year.  The council’s chairperson Martin Wambora (Embu), said the Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA) set the recurrent expenditure budget ceilings for 2022/23 at Sh61.9 billion which is a reduction from FY 2021/22 recurrent expenditure budget ceilings amounting to Sh62.3 billion.  Wambora said the reduction of ShSh398.9 million was noted during a stakeholder engagement workshop held on December 7, 2021.   “The draft Budget Ceilings have maintained the cost of public participation and the cost of operations and maintenance at the same as for the past four Financial Years,” said Wambora who spoke after the full council’s meeting at the CoG’s offices in Nairobi.  Wambora was flanked by governors Lee Kinyanjui (Nakuru), Kiraitu Murungi (Meru), Stanley Kiptis (Baringo), Ahmed Mukhtar (Wajir) and the council’s Chief Executive Officer Mary Mwiti.  Further, the council raised concerns over CRA’s move to make blanket ceilings, without taking into consideration the uniqueness of the counties.   “Certain counties have a larger landmass than others and therefore the cost incurred in the conduct of public participation and sensitisation may differ from one county to the other. In this regard, we urge CRA to revise the Budget Ceilings to accommodate the cost of induction and public participation with consideration of the uniqueness of every County,” said Wambora.   At the same time, the governors said failure by county assemblies to provide a budget for induction of new leadership in the counties after the 2022 General Elections could affect transition.  “Induction is a key component for onboarding of the new county leadership to ensure that there is a seamless transition,” he added.  The council’s joint speech on various issues also touched on the lapse of the seven-year contract of the Managed Equipment Service (MES) Project.  The contract is set to expire between December 2022 and May 2023 with the council indicating that they’ll make a decision on the proposed survey findings of the MES project.  The survey which was commissioned by the Ministry of Health was conducted between the months of May and June 2021 to ascertain the status of the MES Equipment in the counties.  Proposals by the committee include decommissioning and disposal of equipment by the contractor, transfer of equipment to the Ministry of Health and extension of the contracts for an additional three years. “In view of the options provided, the Council of Governors has resolved that counties will seek expert opinion that will render professional advice which will inform the Counties on the next course of action,” said Wambora.  Further the council expressed discontent with the ministry of health proposal to acquire Sh2.4 billion loan to upgrade 20 maternity and newborn facilities in 12 counties without the input of the council.  Thee counties targeted for the upgrade of health facilities include Narok, Kwale, Nyamira, Makueni, Kisii, West Pokot, Embu, Murang’a, Elgeyo Marakwet, Samburu and Nyeri and Nyandarua.  “We call upon the ministry to convene an urgent consultative meeting with the Council in order to address the contentious issues at hand,” said Wambora.  By Jael Mboga | 5 hours ago By James Omoro | 6 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 7 hours ago By Eric Abuga | 7 hours ago