Residents living around Witethie were asked to exercise caution over the roaming hyenas. [Courtesy]  Two men were killed by marauding hyenas in Juja and Makongeni, Kiambu County, on Monday.  Residents said one of the men, who has since been identified as 29-year-old Samuel Kangethe, was killed by over 20 hyenas as he walked home.  The body parts of the second man, who is yet to be identified, were found strewn in Makongeni area.   According to Thika West OCPD Daniel Kinyua, the unidentified man's body was stumbled upon by residents who suspected he was also a victim of the hyenas attack.   Residents living around Witethie were asked to exercise caution over the roaming hyenas.  “Kenyans have been advised to exercise extra caution as KWS (Kenya Wildlife Service) officers work to resolve the matter,” the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) said in a statement.  According to those living in Muthaara area, Kangethe, who was a labourer in a nearby quarry, was dragged away by the hyenas at around 7.45pm before his body was discovered by a passer-by.  His brother Peter Wanyoike, who was still distraught by the incident, said he was yet to come to terms with the death of Kangethe, who has left behind a young family.  “My brother is the sole breadwinner for his family and it is unfortunate that his life has just come to an end in such a crude manner. We call upon KWS to take necessary measures to ensure more lives are not endangered,” said Wanyoike.  Mary Wanjiku, a resident, said they have been living in fear and most parents are worried about their children.  “This is not the first incident in this area and our pleas to KWS have been falling on deaf ears. Our crops continue to be destroyed by wild animals but KWS personnel have always brushed the issue aside without taking any action, Wanjiku said.  Muthaara resident Kinuthia Mugwimi decried government inaction, despite pleas by the residents. He urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to order establishment of a police station in the area, saying they were unable to get assistance in case of such an emergency.  “We have no police post in Muthaara and reporting such incidents is a Herculean task. There is an urgent need for a police station in this area so as to assist locals in the event such animals go on their deadly hunting spree,” Mugwimi said.  He said it took police 24 hours to respond to their distress call when damage had already been done.  Juja DCIO Richard Mwaura yesterday said a multi-agency team drawn from the National Police Service and KWS has been set up to probe the matter and give recommendations on how to tame the carnivores.  The incident comes barely months after another man was attacked by hyenas at Athi village in Juja.   By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 7 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 14 hours ago By James Wanzala and Collins kweyu | 1 day ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 1 day ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.