Kayole North residents receive foodstuff from their leaders on December 25, 2021 [Courtesy]  Eastlands residents have a reason to smile this festive season thanks to the philanthropic actions of Members of the Nairobi County Assembly (MCAs).  The ward reps are currently engaged in a food distribution drive that seeks to help the less fortunate during this festive season.  Led by majority leader Abdi Guyo, the MCAs over the weekend distributed food stuffs to over 6,000 residents of Matopeni, komarock, Kayole North, Kayole south, Kayole central and Mihango wards where priority was given to women and Persons Living with Disabilities (PWDs).  The families received maize flour, salt, rice, sugar and other foodstuffs which were meant to cushion them from the harsh economic effects of the pandemic. “Our aim this festive season is to make sure that every family can at least afford a meal. The pandemic has made life challenging for many but collectively as leaders, we are trying to help in any way we can,” said Guyo.  He brought to the fore that the current food insecurity had been brought about by the economic slump occasioned by the massive job layoffs.  “The extended lockdown period disrupted the livelihoods of many and left them vulnerable. With the gradual recovery of the economy, however, things are looking up,” he added.  Guyo who has also expressed interest in the Embakasi Central Parliamentary seat also urged residents to adhere to Covid-19 protocols and practice road safety during this festive season.  Other leaders present included MCAs John Kamau (Komarock), Samuel Mwangi (Kayole North), Fredrick Okeyo (Kayole South), Jeremiah Themendu (Kayole central), and Paul Kados (Mihango).  On his part, Kados who is also the assembly majority whip called for political tolerance and urged the youth not to accept to be misused ahead of the 2022 general elections.  “No one should fight their neighbour just because he or she subscribes to different political ideologies. We should all learn to tolerate one another,” said Kados.  By James Wanzala and Collins kweyu | 3 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 5 days ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 5 days ago By James Wanzala | 6 days ago