ODM leader Raila Odinga. [Courtesy/Azimio la Umoja]  ODM leader Raila Odinga's convoy made its way through the University Way before joining the Thika Super Highway at around 11am.  Images of the convoy were relayed on mounted screens at Kasarani Stadium to a charged crowd at the facility, driving them into an ecstatic moment.  The convoy made its way to Safari Part Hotel, where the former premier and his team spent about one hour before proceeding to Kasarani Stadium.   The convoy exited Thika Road a few minutes past noon joining a group of supporters who lined up along the road leading to the stadium.  The vehicle carrying the former premier made its way to the stadium at about 12.18pm amid wild cheers and applause by the charged crowd that was had arrived at the stadium as early as 7am.  The former premier went round the stadium acknowledging greetings by the crowd that was chanting slogans in his praise while carrying placards with his image and writings such as "Raila The 5th".  Earlier on, Kanu boss and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi arrived at the event to a warm welcome by the crowd.  Senator Gideon and politician Cyrus Jirongo were the only principals of One Kenya Alliance (OKA) who graced the political extravaganza by Raila.  Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya boss Moses Wetang'ula turned down the invite, while Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka was on a peace mission in Juba, South Sudan.  A host of President Uhuru Kenyatta's members of the Cabinet and top Jubilee officials also attended, signalling the President's preferred choice for the top seat.  Cabinet Secretaries Peter Munya (Agriculture), Eugene Wamalwa (Defence), Joe Mucheru(ICT), Ukur Yattani(Treasury) and Keriako Tobiko (Environment) Sicily Kariuki (Water) and Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho.  The ruling Jubilee Party was represented by its Secretary-General Raphael Tuju, Vice Chairperson David Murathe and National Assembly Majority Leader Amos Kimunya  Cotu boss Francis Atwoli, 2013 presidential candidate Peter Kenneth, governors Wickliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Ndiritu Mureithi (Laikipia), Joseph Ole Lenku (Kajiado), Council of Governors Chairperson Martin Wambora (Embu), Ali Korane (Garissa), Wilberforce Otichilo (VIhiga) and Professor Anyang Nyongo ( Kisumu)  Other county bosses present were Charity Ngilu (Kitui), Francis Kimemia (Nyandarua), Hassan Joho (Mombasa), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet), Granton Samboja (Taita Taveta), John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot) and James Nyoro (Kiambu).   By Raila Odinga | 45 minutes ago By Too Jared | 2 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 3 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 4 hours ago Subscribe to a 1-year plan and get a 50% discount before the 1st of January 2022!