Fracas when Kisii residents clashed with DP Ruto supporters in Kitutu Chache at Bobasi. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  A dangerous trend is developing as leaders traverse the country drumming up support for their political outfits. In January this year, youth chanting hustler slogans stoned Raila Odinga’s motorcade at Githurai, Nairobi.  In November this year, Deputy President William Ruto’s motorcade was stoned at Kondele, Kisumu. On Tuesday this week, Ruto’s rally in Laikipia was interrupted when some youths started heckling him.  A similar incident played out in Kisii on Wednesday when the DP's rally was disrupted before police officers intervened and apprehended four youths.  Unless such incidences are arrested in the nick of time, there is danger they could snowball into something unmanageable as the 2022 election draws closer. During campaigns, history bears witness that most Kenyans forget the spirit of good neighbourliness and resort to primitive acts of violence. The ignominy of the 2008 post-election violence is still fresh in our minds. We cannot afford a repeat.  The electoral agency should read the riot act to aspirants and bar those whose followers disrupt other peoples’ rallies or cause violence. The National Cohesion and Integration Commission should exert its authority by taking tough action against leaders caught spewing hate speech in rallies.  Police should investigate and arrest both the hooligans and those who bankroll them to cause the chaos. They should act firmly without favouring any side of the political divide. There should be no sacred cows.  The 2022 General Election marks a watershed period during which power will change hands. Thus, it behooves all stakeholders, right from the voters, to aspirants to act responsibly.  Let us exercise tolerance even when we do not agree in principle. Listening to various candidates gives us the opportunity to make informed choices. That is the essence of democracy.  By Editorial | 6 hours ago By Editorial | 1 day ago By Editorial | 1 day ago By Editorial | 3 days ago