ODM leader Raila Odinga, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Kanu chairman Gideon Moi, Kisii Governor James Ongwae and businessman SK Macharia during the Azimio la Umoja event at Kasarani Stadium. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  KANU chairperson Gideon Moi has said One Kenya Alliance (OKA), ODM and Jubilee will team up ahead of the 2022 General Election to bring economic transformation to the country.  Speaking at the Azimio la Umoja convention on Friday, Gideon said ODM leader Raila Odinga and OKA principals had similar political aspirations and will work together ahead of the 2022 General Election.  Without mentioning Deputy President William Ruto, Gideon suggested that as OKA, their political opponent was not Raila, but the DP.  “OKA leaders and Raila are allied forces, our target is one, and we all know him, so we will work together,” said Gideon. The Baringo Senator said if Raila gained politically, it would also be their [OKA] gain, adding that soon they will engage politically.  He told the ODM leader to focus on his campaign as they do theirs, promising to compare notes with him soon.  “You aim at the opponent, we are also aiming at the same opponent, and if you pounce, we will pounce.”  Gideon described Raila as a brilliant leader Kenyans can trust with the economy, security and education.  “It is Raila you can trust with your economy, security, education of your children,” he said.  Also in attendance was another OKA principal, Cyrus Jirongo, who addressed the gathering.  ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula skipped the event.  Odinga, in his speech, announced to run for president in 2022 polls, saying that Azimio la Umoja had been converted into a coalition.  Odinga pledged to reach out to other politicians to join the outfit ahead of 2022 polls.  By Raila Odinga | 45 minutes ago By Too Jared | 2 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 3 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 4 hours ago Subscribe to a 1-year plan and get a 50% discount before the 1st of January 2022!