The student says since the November 22 attack, her aggressor is yet to be arrested. [Nikko Tanui, Standard]  A 23-year-old Kenya Medical Training College (KMTC) student is crying for justice after her lover allegedly scalded her with hot water on November 22 in Sigowet, Kericho County.  Cynthia Chepchumba, a student of KMTC Sigowet campus, was allegedly attacked by her boyfriend at a nightclub owned by the suspect, a prominent businessman in Kericho.  On November 22, the woman had joined her friends in celebrating her birthday. During the party, she allegedly refused to accompany her boyfriend home, resulting in the attack.  Police said “a small issue” with acquiring P3 form, led to delayed pursuit of the suspect. “We’ve, however, commenced investigations, and are confident that we’ll arrest and arraign the suspect for causing the student grievous bodily harm,” Kericho County Police Commander Silas Gichunge told The Standard.  The suspect had allegedly emptied on Chepchumba’s breasts hot water, which was in a thermos flask. The victim sustained 10 per cent burn injuries on her breasts and 39 per cent burn injuries on her upper limbs.  Chepchumba says the suspect, who is in his thirties, is influential, and that officers at Chepkemel Police Station “fear” arresting him.  After the incident, Chepchumba was rescued by a boda boda operator, who took her to Sigowet Sub-County Hospital.  A medical report filed by Hillary Cheruiyot, a medic at Sigowet Hospital, said the hot water attack caused the victim 10 per cent burn injuries on her breasts.  The document further revealed that Chepchumba sustained 39 per cent burn injuries on her right arm.  The matter was reported at Sondu Police Station under the OB Number 20/23/11/2021.  “I’m praying that action against my attacker is swiftly taken. He has been calling to verbally intimidate me, warning of unspecified consequences if I pursue the matter to conclusion,” said Chepchumba.  By Michael Saitoti | 10 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 11 hours ago By Kamore Maina | 13 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 20 hours ago