DCI Boss George Kinoti appeared before the National Assembly’s Committee on Defence and Foreign Relations to shed more light on the murder of Agnes Wanjiru. [File, Standard]  DCI boss George Kinoti has revealed that Agnes Wanjiru, who was allegedly killed by a British Soldier in Nanyuki in March 2012, was thrown into a septic tank while still alive.  Kinoti, however, pledges to expedite investigations and pave way for the prosecution of Wanjiru’s killer.  On Thursday, December 2, while appearing before the National Assembly’s Committee on Defence and Foreign Relations, Kinoti recounted Wanjiru’s last days as per investigations.  The DCI chief said on March 31, 2012, Wanjiru, in the company of her friends identified as Florence Mugo and one Susan, visited Lions Court Hotel in Nanyuki, Laikipia County.  Kinoti must go to jail over Wanjigi guns, court rules  Court upholds Kinoti’s four-month jail term  Judge asks Kinoti to report to prison and serve his sentence  DCI boss George Kinoti lands Interpol position A few British Army soldiers, who have a training camp in Laikipia, asked the women to join them on their table.  Florence and Susan, who have been interrogated by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) detectives, said the last time they saw Wanjiru, was when she accompanied a British soldier to his room.  Wanjiru’s body would, later in June 2012, be retrieved from a septic tank at the hotel.  An autopsy conducted on June 13, 2012, indicated she died of chest and abdominal pains.  Kinoti told MPs that preliminary investigations have established that Wanjiru was thrown into the septic tank while still alive.  The DCI chief said Wanjiru had only her bra on, and a packet of unused condoms dumped near her body.  Kinoti said the British soldiers, who were at Lions Court Hotel on the night Wanjiru went missing, have since been identified, and investigations into their involvement launched.  “The septic tank in which her body was retrieved was in the same direction where Wanjiru and her partner were last sighted,” Kinoti said.  Wanjiru, 21, was reported missing in late March, with family efforts to trace her whereabouts futile until June 6, when her body was discovered in a septic tank at the Nanyuki hotel.  Kinoti told MPs that British Army soldiers are persons of interest in the Wanjiru killing and that there were joint efforts by both the UK and Kenyan governments to unravel the murder.  “We have put in place a joint investigations team. Our team is set to visit the UK to interview the suspect and witnesses. We are optimistic we may get a confession from the suspect,” Kinoti told the lawmakers.  Wanjiru was a hairdresser but turned to sex work to provide for her five-month-old daughter, according to The Sunday Times, which spearheaded the investigation into her death.   Treni ya mafuta iliyokuwa ikisafiri kutoka Nanyuki kuelekea Nairobi yashika moto huko Sagana  Developing: Two KWS staffers die after plane crashed soon after take-off in Nanyuki  Twende Nanyuki Project | KTN News Special By Nanjinia Wamuswa | 35 minutes ago By Mate Tongola | 6 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 7 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 9 hours ago