Unlike the biblical prodigal son who repentantly returned home to warm hugs and fattened calf from his father, it was the opposite for Edwin Kiprop, who had been away for 10 years and arrived home with no welcome.  Kiprop, 31, resurfaced at his parent's home in Chepsiro village on Sunday while drunk before his father aged 73 allegedly fatally injured him.  An eyewitness said Kiprop landed home at around 7pm and without any provocation, walked into his parent's bedroom where he rudely jolted his father James Tarus to wake up as he lifted and pulled the bed away.  Tarus was reportedly enjoying an evening nap when the lost son arrived and interrupted him.  A furious Tarus, reportedly, picked a wooden bar and hit Kiprop on the head before he tied a rope around his neck and restrained him to the sofa set.  Screams from other family members attracted neighbours, who alerted area chief Philip Chemoiywo.  "We heard screams from the old man's home and rushed to find out what had happened. We were puzzled when we found that he had attacked and killed his son," a neighbour who declined to be named told the Standard.  The source said Kiprop left home 10 years ago and resurfaced on Sunday evening.  "He left home after his family become hard on him over his bad behaviours of being an alcoholic and use of hard substances. He arrived home drunk and started to trouble his father that he needs a share of the family land," said the source.  Chemoiywo, who arrived at the home a moment later, found Kiprop's motionless, cold body in his parent's sitting room.  The administrator immediately informed police officers at Kachibora Police Station, who arrived at the scene and collected the body.  Area OCPD, Josiah Dullo said Tarus was arrested in connection with the son's death.  "Investigations are on. The old man is in our custody, helping us with information on what had transpired, leading to the man's death," Dullo told The Standard.  He said the DCI is handling the matter before the suspect is arraigned in court.  "The DCI is handling the case and the suspect will be presented before the court when investigations are complete," Dullo told The Standard.  The incident comes barely two weeks after a 53-year-old man hacked her elderly mother to death at Amani village in Sikhendu Kiminini sub-county.  Alfred Boyo slashed and killed her mother Pauline Nangunda using a panga before an irate mob lynched him.  By Kennedy Gachuhi | 55 minutes ago By James Wanzala and Collins kweyu | 3 hours ago By Brian Kisanji | 5 hours ago By James Omoro | 5 hours ago