Deputy President William Ruto in Machakos town.  Deputy President William Ruto yesterday took his “Bottom-Up” campaigns to Machakos county where he dared his opponents in the 2022 race to make public their development track record.  He took a swipe at the Handshake proponents over the push to amend the Constitution, terming it a move for self-gratification to create political positions in the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) Bill, presently at the Supreme Court.  The DP, who has lately pitched tent in Ukambani, has been wooing locals to back his presidential bid, outlining achievements of the Jubilee government.  Ruto seemed to revisit the BBI debate, saying it is not a priority.  Mudavadi welcomes Chebukati's exit from elections committee   Wisdom comes with age, Uhuru says as 2022 campaigns intensify  Facemasks and fist bumps as Uhuru makes his penultimate speech in august House  Sisters defy culture to inherit father's land He said, "We should focus on building our economy and creating jobs for the youth. We should not focus on sharing positions of leadership."  Addressing a crowd in Mutituni market in Machakos Town constituency, the DP urged Kenyans to keenly evaluate the performance of those seeking to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta, saying the majority are not fit for office.  “All my opponents were at one time in powerful government positions such as Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, and Vice President. I dare them to account for their legacy."  He outlined his achievements for the past nine years and urged Kenyans to elevate him to the next level to accomplish his dream of rolling back poverty through economic empowerment.  “Those competing against me have one thing in common: they are obsessed with uniting merely to defeat me. They have no agenda for Kenyans,” he said.  In an apparent reference to ODM leader Raila Odinga’s previous dominance of the region’s presidential vote where he (Raila) garnered more votes than Uhuru and Ruto in the past two consecutive general elections, the DP said it was time the region vouched for the winning card.  “I urge the people of Ukambani not to let their votes go to waste once again. We now have a golden opportunity to form the next government together next year. I am ready to work with you, unlike my opponent who has been losing all the time."  Ruto said he will focus on building on the Big Four Agenda which was his re-election campaign agenda with Uhuru.  “Our desire with President Uhuru Kenyatta was to transform the country through the Big Four Agenda, but the grand plan was interrupted and sabotaged by the Handshake deal,” he said.  The DP said his government if elected as the next President, will focus on investing in transforming the lives of the poor.  Ruto was with UDA chairman and former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama as well as Machakos Town MP Victor Munyaka.   Governor Charity Ngilu on BBI, 2022 Coalitions & State of the Nation | NEWSLINE WITH BEN KITILI  NCCK yadai BBI si jambo la lazima, Usajili katika vyama, Mzozo wa SRC | MBIU WIKENDI (Sehemu ya 2)  BBI Dilemma: Leaders caught off-guard by the nullification of BBI as it affects building coalitions By Emmanuel Too | 57 minutes ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 1 hour ago By Mireri Junior | 2 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 8 hours ago