Lugari MP Ayub Savula addresses a press conference at Parliament, Nairobi on Wednesday, December 29 2021, during a debate on the contested Political Parties Bill 2021. [David Njaaga,Standard]  Amani National Congress (ANC) deputy party leader Ayub Savula has ditched the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) movement.  Savula joined Azimio la Umoja caravan alongside Ikolomani MP Bernard Shinali.  The duo are among five MPs and 11 MCAs from the western region who joined the Orange Democratic Movement Party (ODM) and Azimio movement.  The other defectors included ANC Secretary-General Godfrey Osotsi, Oku Kaunya of Teso North and Emanuel Wangwe of Navakholo Constituency. Oku was elected on an ANC ticket while Wangwe was, until his defection, a Jubilee MP.  Shifted alliances  Savula, who has been on the OKA side, however, stated that he is still in ANC, adding that he has just shifted alliances.  “I’ve not defected from ANC, but I’ve officially joined Azimio la Umoja.  “I want to state categorically that I have officially ditched OKA from today (Friday, December 31),” added Savula.  On his part, Osotsi announced that he has ditched ANC for ODM.  “I want to be on the same team with Baba (Raila Odinga). I have officially joined ODM,” Osotsi declared at the Bukhungu Stadium on Friday in the presence of Raila, who was the chief guest at the rally.  “I was elected on an ANC ticket, but Baba has officially welcomed me to his house,” said Oku.  Wangwe said that he shifted allegiance because he knows which party “will form the government” in 2022.  “I have joined Azimio, and when the time comes, I will vie on an ODM ticket,” he said.  “Just like any other region, Western Kenya is also taking a political trajectory.”  “The government is formed through negotiations. In 2016 I knew that Raila (Odinga) was not going to win the presidency and that's why I never supported him. But now, I am convinced he is taking it. That is why I am here," said Wangwe.  Raila also received five ANC ward representatives, three from UDP and two from Ford Kenya, all defecting to ODM.  They include Charles Odinga of Mumias West (ANC), Protus Wanga (ANC), John Musilwa (ANC) Godliver Omondi (ANC), Elly Keya (ANC) Brian Mafunga (Ford Kenya), John Ngome (UDP), Harrison Shikuku (UDP), Anthony Wabuke (Ford Kenya), Godfrey Ondiro (ANC) and nominated MCA Christine Imboza (UDP).  By Moses Nyamori | 1 hour ago By Nathan Ochunge | 1 hour ago By Alexander Chagema | 1 hour ago By Alexander Chagema | 1 hour ago