About Sh2.6 billion will be spent to upgrade two key roads to boost the movement of cargo to and from the Port of Mombasa.  Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) acting Managing Director John Mwangemi said the Kipevu and Nyerere-Mbaraki roads would be upgraded at the cost of Sh2.04 billion and Sh543.6 million respectively.  He said KPA, the UK, Denmark and the Mombasa County government will finance the two projects.  Mwangemi said KPA will give Sh1.5 billion for the Kipevu road project, while the UK government, through Trade Mark East Africa (TMEA), had contributed Sh520 million.  SGR hauls increased cargo between Mombasa port and Nairobi  Backstabbing, skullduggery alleged in DCI Mombasa Port probe  Mombasa Port remains resilient despite Covid-19 effects  Uhuru tours Mombasa port amid looming strike by KPA employees   For the Nyerere-Mbaraki road, the UK and the Danish International Development Agency will provide Sh499 million, while the county will foot the remaining Sh44.6 million bill.  Kipevu will be expanded to provide a seamless connection to the port and ease traffic flow.  “These roads form critical arteries to and from the Port of Mombasa. They will enhance efficiency and seamless cargo movement from the port through the Northern corridor,” said Mwangemi when the UK High Commissioner Jane Marriot toured the two roads on Tuesday.  Ms Marriot was accompanied by a delegation of officials from TMEA, led by its Chief Executive Frank Matsaert and Country Director Ahmed Farah.  Marriot said her government is committed to boosting trade through the port and across Kenya.  She said since 2011, the UK has supported key physical infrastructure and service delivery in and around the Port of Mombasa.  “These two road projects will not only increase trade opportunities within Kenya and overseas but will help Kenyan firms seize opportunities from the UK-Kenya Economic Partnership Agreement that was ratified earlier in the year - an important part of a partnership between our two nations,” she said.  Principal Secretary in the East African Community and Regional Cooperation Kevit Desai said the projects will boost the intermodal transport system.  Governor Hassan Joho commended the UK and the Danish governments, and TradeMark East Africa.  “Once we have everything moving in the right manner, we can start talking about a 24-hour economy, which will create more jobs for our youth,” Joho said.  The Nyerere-Mbaraki road works are 60 per cent complete, according to H Young Company.   Women embracing heavy machinery which is mainly a male dominated sphere  SGR DEMOS: Local leaders claim the monopoly has not been fully lifted and could be reimposed  Why Kenyans are against privatization of Mombasa Port By Philip Mwakio | 14 hours ago By Erick Abuga | 21 hours ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 1 day ago By Philip Mwakio | 5 days ago