Nichola Mutethia after he received a motorcycle from Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi. [Phares Mutembei, Standard]  A 26-year-old man has received a motorcycle from Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi to help him in his bid to unseat Igembe Central MP Kubai Kiringo next year.  In announcing his bid for MP, Nicholas Mutethia, who ekes a living from his tiny barbershop at Maili Tatu, is taking inspiration from the exploits of Igembe South MP John Paul Mwirigi, who campaigned on a motorcycle and on foot.  Ben Kirimi, a Meru resident, said they had christened Mutethia “DC” because of his penchant for raising issues with administrators on development matters.  Mr Mutethia said Igembe Central was vast and that there was no way he could cover the entire space on foot, hence his successful appeal to Mr Murungi for a motorcycle. Kiraitu and Deputy Governor Titus Ntuchiu visited Maili Tatu stadium to issue motorcycles at a youth empowerment event, and Mutethia took the opportunity to state his need.  With the crowd urging him on, Mutethia said he needed a motorcycle to help him move around. Kiraitu obliged.  “I am over the moon. I now have a vehicle because what I get as a kinyozi is not even enough to sustain me. Now I will be able to move to different corners of the constituency to interact with the people,” he said.  Shared his frustrations  Mutethia said he decided to run for the seat because he shared in the frustrations of residents, top among them pathetic state of roads.  “I want to go to Parliament to state our case for better roads. We have a lot of miraa but the transportation of the product is a major challenge,” he said.  He said many of his age mates were unhappy, as they did not have jobs, even after graduating from colleges and universities.  “I did a Diploma in Tourism and was in my second year pursuing a degree course at Laikipia University. My family could not afford the fees, so I settled on operating a barbershop,” said Mutethia.  The Igembe Boys High School alumnus said he was inspired at how voters in Igembe South embraced  Mwirigi, even though at the time he was vying he had nothing to his name.  “Mwirigi was vying against older and experienced candidates who had the money for a campaign, but he won in a fair contest. I am banking on my people’s ability to recognise the potential I have and take me to Parliament,” he said.  “I presented a motorbike to Nicholas Mutethia, fondly known as DC, in fulfilment of a promise I had made to him at Maili Tatu grounds on November 21,” Kiraitu said.  Ntuchiu added: “In line with our commitment to empowering the youth, this afternoon I joined Governor Kiraitu when we presented a motorcycle to Igembe Central MP aspirant Nicholas Mutethia alias “DC”, which the governor had promised at Maili Tatu last month. On that day, our government was issuing motorcycles to groups of youth and Mutethia had publicly requested the governor to issue him with a motorcycle, which he pledged and has honoured today.”  By Nathan Ochunge and Jackline Inyanji | 10 minutes ago By Patrick Beja and Nehemiah Okwembah | 10 minutes ago By Renson Mnyamwezi and Phares Mutembei | 10 minutes ago By Willis Oketch | 5 hours ago