Chaotic scenes from a previous ODM meeting in Migori. [Denish Ochieng, Standard]  ODM leader Raila Odinga has devised three strategies to avert fallout after nominations.  Speaking when he presided over Wanga Genowa NGAAF Tournament 2021, games sponsored by Homa Bay Woman Rep Gladys Wanga at Homa Bay Boys High School yesterday, Raila said the first procedure the party will use is consensus.  This will involve agreement among aspirants eyeing a particular seat.   "We recommend that people who are eyeing a given seat agree and allow one person to carry the party flag. Their agreement will prevent any protest that may result from nomination," Raila said.  The ODM leader said if consensus fails, the aspirants will be subjected to voting.  He explained that if the aspirants still feel dissatisfied after going through the two procedures, the party will resort to direct nomination.   Raila assured that the direct nomination will be done based on opinion polls conducted by ODM.  He said the law allows a political party to issue direct nominations to a candidate.  "At times, we may be pressed by the deadline stipulated by the IEBC but it is a fact that the party must have candidates for elective positions. In this case, we will conduct an opinion poll so that the highest-rated candidate is accorded the ticket. For example, if it is  Homa Bay gubernatorial race, we can give the ticket to Wanga, Evans Kidero, Mbadi or any other candidate found to be the most popular, " Raila said.  The ODM leader said this is aimed at preventing violence which causes tension in Nyanza during nominations.  He dismissed claims that the party has preferred candidates for the governors' seats.  Raila said he cannot endorse a candidate for any seat in the region.  He argued that all aspirants eyeing various seats on ODM ticket are his supporters and he cannot discriminate against anyone.  "Let the contest for local seats not be perceived as a do and die race. We need nominations done peacefully and those who fail to get the positions will be given other jobs in the government," Raila said.  Raila was accompanied by Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang', MPs Ong'ondo Were (Kasipul), Adipo Okuome ( Karachuonyo), Martin Owino (Ndhiwa) and Pamela Odhiambo (Migori).  Ms Wanga told youths to support Raila because his policies will empower them.  "The youth have a capacity of making someone a president in this country. I want you to consider a presidential candidate whose policies can empower you like those of Raila," she said.  By Stanley Ongwae | 13 hours ago By Eric Abuga and Patrick Beja | 17 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo and Olivia Odhiambo | 1 day ago By Harold Odhiambo | 2 days ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.