ODM leader Raila Odinga, Homa Bay Woman Rep Gladys Wanga and Kasipul MP Ong’ondo Were dancing during a meeting at his friend Erustus Okul’s home in Karachuonyo Constituency on December 23, 2021. [James Omoro, Standard]  ODM leader Raila Odinga has accused Deputy President William Ruto of politically misleading Kenyans.  Raila, who retreated back to his Nyanza base for Christmas, said Ruto is sweet-talking Kenyans to elect him when he does not merit leadership.  Speaking in Karachuonyo in the company of Homa Bay Woman Rep Gladys Wanga, local MP Adipo Okume, Kasipul MP Ong’ondo Were and former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, Raila told Kenyans to be cautious of Ruto and his allies.   “Recently, they said our supporters are people who vandalised the railway line in Kibra. We don’t want people who seek votes by perpetrating hatred because that is where we came from and we would not like to go back there,” Raila said. The ODM leader, who visited the home of his friend Erastus Okul at Komolo Lwala in Central Karachuonyo ward, said time had come for Kenyans to questions Ruto’s statements.  He described as Ruto a political hyena dressed in sheepskin. “There is a hyena addressed in sheepskin and pretends to be a sheep. These days he goes to church every Saturday and Sunday and cries like a sheep so the door can be opened for him. I tell you this is a hyena and should not come close to you,” Raila said.  The ODM leader criticised Ruto’s bottom-up economic model saying it has no benefit to Kenyans. He added that those promoting the model have been misled.  “There are people who are opposed to our Azimio La Umoja initiative because they are promoting a bottom-up approach. They deceive Kenyans by saying chini juu ati  (bottom-up). They lack direction and are unaware of where they are heading and where they have come from,” he said.  The ODM leader said he is committed to uniting Kenyans through the Azimio La Umoja initiative. “We don’t want anything that can disintegrate Kenya. We must unite Kenyans at all costs,” Raila said.  Wanga dismissed claims by Ruto and his allies that Raila is a state project. “Raila has never been anybody’s project. Ruto and his allies are wrong. They should stop referring to Raila as anybody’s project,” said Wanga.  Wanga added: “Raila has received support from Central Kenya which people thought he could not. Ruto’s allegations against Raila are a sign he has sensed defeat.”  Were told Nyanza to unite behind Raila. “Let us all look at the bigger picture of consolidating our support to elect Raila,” Were said.  Raila promised to introduce free secondary education if elected. He urged the youth to register as voters when the electoral commission opens voter registration.   By Grace Ng'ang'a | 40 minutes ago By Moses Nyamori | 16 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 16 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 1 day ago Enjoy unlimited access to The Standard website at a 50% discount on the yearly plan.