MPs engaged in a fist fight during the debate on the controversial Political Parties (Amendment) Bill, 2021. [Courtesy]  The chaos witnessed in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon is a shame to the nation.  Members of Parliament threw decorum out of the window and engaged in a fist fight during the debate on the controversial Political Parties (Amendment) Bill, 2021.  Following the chaos, National Assembly Minority leader John Mbadi was suspended from the House for five consecutive sittings for punching and injuring Sigowet-Soin MP Kipsengeret Koros.  There were also instances of some members hurling bottles at one another. The chaos broke during hours of heated debate on the amendments to controversial laws governing political parties and the registration of coalitions. The chaos drew wide condemnation from a cross-section of Kenyans and rightly so. Many expressed their disappointment at the behaviour of some of the legislators.  Members of Parliament throwing punches and disrupting debate in the hallowed precincts should be condemned by all. The august House that is supposed to be the epitome of leadership and integrity, a pride of democracy was turned into an arena of shame.  With the current legislators clearly anything goes, seeing that there is no telling how low they can go.  These honourable members are supposed to be role models to the younger generations. Instead of acting as role models to the millions of youth, who form majority of voters, they disgraced themselves before the whole country. Unfortunately, they did not live up to the expectations.  The House Speaker should work to restore the dignity of the House by ensuring stern action is taken on the errant members beyond the suspension from sittings.  As Kenyans we demand integrity and accountable leadership and good behaviour from those we elect. It is time as electorate to demand the MPs behave like the leaders we elected and stop the shenanigans they are engaged in the august House.  This has to stop.  By Editorial | 1 day ago By Nicholas Asego | 2 days ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 3 days ago