ODM leader Raila Odinga. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto are expected at the Coast today in what is seen as an escalation of the battle for the region's 1.7 million votes.  Raila arrived in Mombasa on Tuesday for a three-day vacation but flew to Vihiga for the burial of Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi's stepmother in Vihiga.  Before he went to Vihiga on Friday, Raila met President Uhuru Kenyatta at the Mtongwe Naval base in Mombasa.    According to an itinerary shared by former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar, Ruto will meet Kaya elders, professionals and hold a rally in Shanzu during his two-day tour of Mombasa.  Meanwhile, Raila is today also expected meet hundreds of the elderly at Sheikh Khalifa Hall in Mombasa. Three days ago, he met influential community leaders at Kizingo.  On Wednesday he met some professional from Kwale County at his Nyali residence.  Raila is said to be imploring his support base to remain united after the party nominations for various elective posts in the region.  “Discussions are based on how we can work together in harmony so as to strengthen our party in Mombasa and entire coastal region,” said ODM Mombasa branch chair Mohamed Hamid.  Hamid told the Sunday Standard that Raila said ODM will conduct nomination through either consensus, delegate or opinion polls to avert a fallout.  “Yes, we met the party leader in Kizingo. He was very clear that the party will use consensus, delegates, or an opinion poll to select the candidates in Mombasa,” said Hamid in an interview.  He said an opinion poll will be conducted by a credible firm devoid of influence from either the aspirants or the party mandarins at the headquarters.  Yesterday, Mombasa lawyer Abubakar Yusuf said Raila has changed tack and decided to engage the voters directly because of the divisions that have been created by aspirants.  “It is clear that Raila want to gather them all. He does not want a faction supporting an aspirant that will lose in the nomination to run away from him,” said Yusuf.  He said the ODM leader was aware that some aspirants may defect if they are not satisfied with the process.   By Roselyne Obala | 2 hours ago By Kamau Ngotho | 3 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 7 hours ago By Brian Otieno and Moses Nyamori | 8 hours ago