Uasu elections for Mmust Chapter Returning Officer Swaleh Dianga (right) during the counting of votes where the entire Uasu leadership was voted out in protest by lecturers who accused them of causing disunity in the university on March 24, 2021.[Nathan Ochunge,Standard]  University lecturers will today converge in Nakuru County for their annual delegates conference where they will pick their union representatives.  The event, to be held at Nakuru Athletics Club, comes just a week after the High Court in Nairobi stopped the University Academic Staff Union (Uasu) elections following an application by four lecturers from Kenyatta University.  Franklin Kinoti, Chrispus Easier, Antony Wasena, and Moses Opiyo had challenged the Uasu, Kenyatta University chapter, elections.  Uasu Secretary-General Constantine Wasonga yesterday said he will be defending his seat, saying his tenure has witnessed the implementation of two national Collective Bargain Agreements (CBAs) in one cycle.  Kinyanjui changes tack to fend off opposition in 2022 governor's contest  What Nakuru ‘city’ governor must do to make history  New twist in land dispute as man claiming ownership is arraigned  Woman in Nakuru attempted to cover up grandson's murder, court hears He will face it off with Prof Sammy Kubasu who returns to teaching after getting back his job at Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology.  Refusal to take up  Kubasu, who served as the union’s chairman, was sacked in 2010 over his refusal to take up an appointment as Biological Sciences chairman, which the university said amounted to insubordination.  The position of Deputy Secretary-General has attracted the interest of Philip Chebunet, a communications specialist at the University of Eldoret.  Chebunet, will square it out with Chacha Nyaigotti from Garissa University.  Others eyeing the seat are Jacob Musembi of Technical University of Kenya and Mulwa Bendibbie.  Wekesa Maloba from the University of Nairobi is the late entrant in the race, having declared his candidature last Friday.  The position of the union national chairperson will be a fierce battle between Kisii University’s Grace Nyongesa and Muga Rugara of Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology.  Dr Nyongesa entered the race after the long-serving Muga Kolale resigned at the weekend and declared he would not be seeking re-election.  For the Organising Secretary position, Nyaberi Mogaka from University of Eldoret faces Onesmus Mutio from Multi-Media University (MMU), Linda Allan from TUK, and Richard Okero from Moi University.   [Steve Mkawale]      Tussle over the ownership of land in Ngongogeri, Nakuru threatening peace amongst disputing parties  A total of 24 unclaimed bodies to be buried in Nakuru upon expiry of a 21-day-period  Residents of Nakuru to wait longer before they can enjoy water supply from the Itare dam project By  Joe Ombuor | 15 minutes ago By Brian Otieno | 3 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 8 hours ago By Augustine Oduor | 8 hours ago