The houses were torched at Radienya village in Ndhiwa, Homa Bay County. [James Omoro, Standard]  Three families have been left homeless after their houses were torched by a mob in a retaliatory attack following the death of a villager.  The families from Radienya village in Ndhiwa Sub-county lost five houses and property of unknown value following the Monday evening incident.  The arson followed the death of a 40-year-old man, identified as Tobias Odhiambo Obunga, who died after being attacked by a neighbor.  It is reported that the suspect confronted Obunga for grazing cows on his farm. A physical altercation then ensued.  Locals bury goat's blood after body of granny is exhumed  Truck rams into woman carrying child, killing mother on the spot  Where girls get pregnant to prove they are fertile  Manhunt for policeman who assaulted, pricked his wife's genitals with nails During the fight, the suspect slashed Obunga with a panga on the left arm and head. He died as he was being rushed to Homa Bay County Referral Hospital.  One of the houses torched at Radienya village in Ndhiwa, Homa Bay County. [James Omoro, Standard]  Upon learning of the death, the suspect surrendered to Ndhiwa Police Station.   According to Central Kanyamwa Chief George Otieno, the suspect called and notified him of the assault after finding Obunga's cattle grazing on his maize farm.  “The suspect said the deceased’s action to let cattle destroy his crop eroded the good relations they used to have,” Otieno said.  An irate mob soon after launched a retaliatory attack and set ablaze five houses belonging to the suspect and his family. Two pigs and one calf were also killed in the incident.  “What the residents did is wrong,” said Chief Otieno.  Confirming the attack, Ndhiwa Sub County Police Commander Robert Aboki said the suspect was arrested and detained. “We will arraign him once investigations are completed,” Aboki said.    Dr. Amolo who was stabbed by his son passes on  Over 2000 police officers to man Homa Bay senatorial voting process   Wagombezi wa Kiti cha Seneti ya Homa Bay wanatarajiwa kuongea juu ya uchaguzi By Harold Odhiambo | 13 hours ago By Mactilda Mbenywe | 20 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo and Olivia Odhiambo | 1 day ago By Jael Mboga | 1 day ago