The home of Joanah Stuchbury a conservationist who was shot dead by gunmen on July 15, 2021.[Wilberforce Okwiri,Standard]  Instead on driving over dry tree branches on the path leading to her home, Joannah Strutchbury stopped her car, stepped out in order to collect logs strewn on the unpaved path leading to her home at Mushroom Estate in Kiambu.  As the 64-year-old was about to collect the logs, probably to ferry them into her compound, she was confronted by gunmen who lay in wait.  Police suspect she was first shot once in the chin then twice on the neck.    President Uhuru condemns killing of environmentalist Joanna Stuchburry  When 20 minutes to CBD becomes three hours  I was not part of Waititu mess, former county staff tells IEBC panel  How Limuru residents cope with July cold According to the police, there was a brief scuffle before Strutchbury was overpowered by unknown assailants.  “She had bruises on her right hand. This could be an indication she tried to fight off the attackers and that’s why they shot her through the chin before firing more after she fell down,” said a police officer who was among the first to arrive at the scene on Thursday evening.  A journalist by profession, Strutchbury was recently vocal against environmental degradation near her home.  She and the Kenya Forest Service were taken to court by individuals who claimed they own land in Kiambu Forest that borders her home.  In 2018, Strutchbury shot to the limelight when she single-handedly stopped a group that wanted to re-channel a wetland by creating an access road to the forest.  Her iconic photo while seated on the bucket of an excavator that had been brought to clear the wetland went viral, forcing the alleged land grabbers to abandon their mission.  Strutchbury was killed about 100 metres from that gate of her home.  The green canopy provided a perfect camouflage for the assailants believed to have vanished into the bushes.  Her workers found her dead after hearing gunshots from the direction of the unpaved driveway that has hedges on both sides.  Strutchbury’s home stands on her late parents’ eight-acre land which has indigenous trees.  “We rushed after hearing gunshots only to find madam was already dead while the engine of her car was still running,” said Ndambu Mutemi, who has worked for Strutchbury for 15 years.  It emerged after the shooting that the dry tree branches were strewn on the path by the killers, whose intention was to murder the environmentalist, said Kiambu County Criminal Investigations Officer Samson Kiptum.  “We still don’t know the motive, but it is murder and our officers will try to get the killers,” said Kiptum.  Nothing was stolen from her. Strutchbury had left around mid-day to join her son who lives in Garden Estate for lunch. She was attacked at around 4.30pm as she drove back home.  Ir?ng? Houghton, executive director of Amnesty International Kenya, called for speedy investigation saying Strutchbury had expressed fears over her life due to her whistle blowing on illegal activities in Kiambu Forest.  “As Amnesty International, the death of an environmentalist is a matter of concern to us. Strutchbury was very passionate about preserving and protecting nature.  "It is unfortunate criminals have killed her. The DCI must exhaust all means possible to find those who killed her and their motive,” said Irungu after visiting Strutchbury’s home.  President Uhuru Kenyatta, while condoling with her family, ordered the police to make sure the killers are brought to book.  “For the longest time, Joannah has been a steadfast champion for the conservation of our environment and is remembered for her relentless efforts to protect Kiambu Forest from encroachment,” said Uhuru.  HUnguku@standardmedia.co.ke    Polisi huko Ruiru wanamtafuta mwanamume mmoja anayeshukiwa kumdunga kwa kisu na kumuua mkewe  The Lead: Is Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu using his brother’s academic papers as his?  Msasa wa vyeti vya elimu ya mbunge wa Kabete Ferdinand Waititu By Mercy Kahenda | 7 minutes ago By Brian Okoth | 1 hour ago By Iman Masud  | 2 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 5 hours ago