Dairy farmers are set to benefit from new regulations that will set a minimum return for each litre sold to boost dwindling milk production.   While addressing dairy farmers at the University of Embu during a field day organised by Kenya Dairy Board, Agriculture Cabinet Secretary, Peter Munya said the demand for milk outstrips production.   "With the new regulations in the dairy sector, production of milk will increase, fetching better prices for the benefit of dairy farmers," he said.  The CS said the regulation on minimum return will be reviewed every six months.     He further observed that if managed well, the dairy sector had the potential of exporting milk outside the country.   "The government has fast-tracked reforms in the agriculture sector notably in the tea and coffee sectors which is bearing fruit in increased prices for farmers," Munya noted.   He pointed out the ministry is also in the process of implementing reforms on other crops such as cotton, sweet potatoes, and sorghum to boost production.   Munya said the government would be issuing farmers with cotton seeds in Embu and Mbeere region ahead of the short rainfall season.   Kenya Dairy Board (KDB) Managing Director Magaret Rugut said that Embu County is currently producing 45 million litres of milk which she said is way below the demand in the county.   "The Dairy Board has trained over 100 farmers on dairy farming and this has improved the quality of milk in the county, we have even established a laboratory for milk examination and analysis in Embu," she said.   The Director, however, noted that farmers have challenges accessing coolers for their milk, adding that the board is aware and consulting stakeholders in the sector to address the problem.  The field day had brought together partners in dairy farming such as Agriculture and Food Authority, Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Service, New KCC, Kenya Veterinary Vaccines Production Institution among others.    By Biketi Kikechi | 1 day ago By Fidelis Kabunyi | 1 day ago By Brian Okoth | 3 days ago By Standard Team | 3 days ago