Emily Chepkemboi was pursuing a diploma course in clinical medicine at KMTC in Homa Bay. [Courtesy]  Kenya Medical Training College (KMTC) student who was murdered in a suspected love triangle in Homa Bay will be buried on Wednesday, July 14.  Emily Chepkemboi was allegedly murdered by his 37-year-old lover and will be buried in their home at Kimulgumet village in Emgwen, Nandi county.  On Tuesday, her body was transferred from Homa Bay County Referral Hospital Mortuary to Samaritan Funeral Home in Kapsabet town.  Chepkemboi’s brother Joseph Kipruto told The Standard burial arrangements to ensure the 23-year-old is laid to rest were complete.  “As we lay my sister to rest, I want to call on the government authorities to accord her justice.  She died an unwarranted death that was caused by someone. We want the killers brought to book,” Kipruto said.  At the same time, the deceased’s family called on the authorities to arrest and charge the perpetrators of the heinous act.  “She was a happy and cheerful girl. I will be at peace the day her killers will be brought to book,” the deceased’s sibling went on.  Chepkemboi’s decomposed body was found in her rental house on Tuesday, June 27, and is suspected to have been killed two nights prior.  Sleuths have relied on information from her phone conversations and so far a contractor, resident of Homa Bay, has been detained by investigators over the murder.  Homa Bay sub-county DCIO Monica Berege said the suspect was under interrogations until further notice.  “We are still interrogating the suspect. He was Chepkemboi’s lover. We are doing our best to get information regarding the murder,” Berege said.  The slain lady was a first-year student pursuing a diploma course in clinical medicine at the KMTC, Homa Bay branch.  Her body was found in bed, covered with a duvet.  The stench from her decomposed body prompted the neighbors to break into her house which was locked with a padlock.  No suspect has been charged in court.   By Julius Chepkwony | 1 hour ago By The Standard Team | 1 hour ago By Kamore Maina | 6 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 6 hours ago