Migori Governor Okoth Obado the key suspect in the murder of Sharon Otieno. [File, Standard]  Government analyst at the forensic biology chemist, John Kimani Mungai,  today testified that Migori Governor Okoth Obado sired Sharon Otieno’s baby.  Taking the witness stand at the Milimani Law Courts, Mungai said DNA samples from Obado, which were matched against those of Otieno’s unborn baby, indicated there was a 99.99 per cent probability that the county chief sired the baby.  “Buccal swab DNA profiles from Sharon Otieno, Michael Oyamo [Obado’s co-accused], the foetus and Okoth Obado were tabulated. The results show there was a 99.99+ per cent that Okoth Obado was the biological father of Sharon’s child,” said Mungai.  The government analyst further testified that Sharon Otieno’s vaginal swab, semen samples in a condom found at the scene, blood stains from a jacket, trousers, open shoes and Otieno’s bra were also analysed.  After 24-year search, Chinese man reunited with kidnapped son  Two children who went missing in Buruburu found dead  Officer tells of condoms at Sharon Otieno’s murder scene  Sharon Otieno murder trial: Photographic evidence presented in court The results revealed the semen in the condom was “of an unidentified male”, indicating Otieno's suspected rapist remains unknown.  The analysis absolved Obado’s personal assistant, Oyamo, from Otieno’s baby paternity links.  The governor, Oyamo and another suspect, Casper Obiero (former Migori County Assembly Clerk) are accused of killing Sharon Otieno and her unborn baby in September 2018.  Otieno’s body was found in the forest in Oyugis, Homa Bay County on September 5, 2018.  On Monday, Chief Government Pathologist Dr. Johansen Oduor, who was the first to take the witness stand, told Justice Cecilia Githua that the mother and child succumbed to excessive bleeding and strangulation.  Otieno had seven stab wounds, including two under the left ear, when it was presented for examination, Oduor said.  Otieno’s 28-week unborn male baby also succumbed to the stab injuries.   Kidnappers Manhunt: Police probing kidnapping of 23-year-old Hafsa Mohamed rescued in Kayole  Mkuu wa upelelezi Ndegwa Muhoro akosoana na wakili Ahmednassir Abdullahi kuhusu madai ya ufisadi  KTN Leo kamilifu 10 Machi 2016 - Ndegwa Muhoro yu matatani By Betty Njeru | 27 minutes ago By Too Jared | 1 hour ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 7 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 11 hours ago