The body of police officer Caroline Kangogo who is believed to have killed a male colleague in Nakuru and a businessman in Juja earlier this month has been moved to Iten County Referral Hospital mortuary.  Kangogo was found dead at her parent's home in Anin village, Elgeyo Marakwet County at 8am this morning.  Her lifeless body was discovered lying in a bathroom at her parents' home.    County Police Commander Patrick Lumumba led a team of regular police officers and detectives in processing the scene.  Fugitive cop Caroline Kangogo found dead at her parents’ home  The Nairobian Heads Up  Matiang'i in bid to end insecurity in Kerio Valley  Top lawyer offers to represent fugitive policewoman Caroline Kangogo Lumumba said police were still investigating how the police officer who has been missing since July 5 sneaked into her parents' homestead last night and the circumstances under which she died.  "How she shot herself without relatives hearing the gunshot is still a puzzle," Lumumba said.  Keiyo North Police Commander Tom Makori has earlier told The Standard that Kangogo might have committed suicide.  "The body has a bullet wound and next to her, is a Ceska pistol and a spent cartridge. We are waiting for specialist officers to process the scene," Makori said.  The police boss said Kangogo may have shot herself dead soon after arriving at the home.  Kangogo is suspected to have shot dead constable John Ogweno in Nakuru before allegedly killing Peter Ndwiga in Juja.  Locals who arrived at the home upon receiving the news said the late officer's body was discovered by her mother Leah Kangogo who had gone to the bathroom to bathe at around 8am.    Death in a Cell: 29-year-old student allegedly committed suicide while in police custody in Makueni  Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death By Gilbert Kimutai | 7 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 day ago By Antony Gitonga | 1 day ago By Bakari Angela | 1 day ago