Deputy President William Ruto when he shared a moment with Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi.[Courtesy]  Deputy President William Ruto and ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi yesterday intensified their 2022 presidential campaigns in Central Kenya. The two attended separate church services in Nyandarua County before addressing supporters within the county at different venues.  Ruto led over 50 MPs and Members of the County Assembly allied to UDA party in a thanksgiving function for the newly elected Rurii ward representative Muraya Githaiga.  Mudavadi said Ruto had no chance of resuscitating the hurting economy.    How Kenya’s politics risks being overrun by big money  The good, bad and the ugly of IEBC recruitment  Are judges in order to allow postponement of polls?  Facing death, Jubilee Party has a lot to learn from the Chinese “Corruption has been the hallmark of this administration and has made life very expensive. I don’t understand how someone is telling you that he will fix an economy that he has run down for the last nine years,” he said.  Ruto team first joined faithful at St Joseph Catholic before meeting at Rurii Stadium. During the prayer meeting, MPs took the chance to castigate the government for what they termed as intimidating leaders who support the DP.  The leaders were referring to last Friday’s arrest of Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua.  Nyandarua MP Faith Gitau took to the podium to pray for the lawmaker who spent the weekend in police cells.  “We are ready to be arrested at any one time for the sake of the fifth president who is William Ruto. These are just cheap politics and our time will come,” Gitau said  While at the church, Ruto defended his move to support UDA, saying Jubilee had been hijacked by some few individuals and hence the need for an alternative.  “We had to seek shelter elsewhere and hence we formed UDA. Our agenda of forming Jubilee party were thwarted just because of greed of some officials” he said.  He noted that the party was becoming popular and that was why it had won parliamentary and ward seats in the recent by-elections. “I want to thank the people of Rurii for electing Muraya as your MCA. You have showed confidence in us,” he said.  Mudavadi who was on a second-day tour in the county attended church services at St Cecilia Catholic Church and Apostolic Faith Church in Njambini where he called for peace and cohesion ahead of next year's General Elections.  The former Deputy Prime Minister who is eyeing the presidency next year urged politicians to steer clear of political strategies that may lead to electoral violence.  “Kenya has come a long way to get back on its feet after the events of 2007 elections where many Kenyans were killed, maimed and rendered IDPs. No politician should ride on a card that leads to violence to get a political seat,” said Mudavadi.  He said Kenyans should act with restraint to accommodate each other especially in the cosmopolitan areas where different groups and communities differ on political stands.  “No Kenyan should be victimised for exercising their democratic right to elect a leader of their choice. We should embrace our diversity in all aspects including politics,” said Mudavadi.  Further, the ANC leader said no blood should be shed due to politics and warned against voter intimidation to force people cast ballots in a particular way for fear of attacks. “I am hopeful that we shall have a peaceful transition from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration to the next. I appeal to Nyandarua people to allow me to serve them after Uhuru,” he said.  Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia who had accompanied Mudavadi said that the people of Central Kenya will support a candidate who will help revive the dwindling economy of the region.  “We care more about our economy and especially our agricultural sector. Kenyans need a leader who embraces peace, has no controversy and is keen to unite all people and Mudavadi fits that description,” said Kimemia.   Wabunge 3 Tana River washinikiza wananchi kumuunga mkono Naibu Rais William Ruto | MBIU YA KTN (2)  Ruto asema katiba si lazima wakati huu, Kenya inahitaji kuboresha uchumi kuliko jambo lingine lolote  Karim Khan achukua kiapo cha afisi ya ICC, ana kibarua kikubwa kinachomsubiri By Paul Ogemba | 21 seconds ago By PSCU | 5 hours ago By Robert Abong'o | 11 hours ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 14 hours ago