Kipipiri MP Amos Kimunya at Kimuga polling station in Kiambaa. Rowdy youths forced him to leave the centre. [Emmanuel Too, Standard]  Jubilee Majority Leader and Kipipiri MP Amos Kimunya had a rough time this morning when he visited one of the polling stations in Kiambaa constituency.  Kimunya came face to face with a group of rowdy youths at Kimuga Polling Station who accused him of interfering with the voting exercise and ordered him to leave the venue.  The youths shouted at the MP, saying they did not know why he [Kimunya] was at the centre.    Kiambaa contest between Jubilee and UDA tight as results stream in  LIVE BLOG: Jubilee leading in Muguga as tallying continues  IEBC dismisses Kuria's claims of missing KIEMS kits   Dawn of a new era in Kiambaa as voters go to the polls The MP tried to talk to the youths in vain as they shouted "Kimunya must go".  Kimunya finally left the venue after the youths persisted that he was not needed at the centre.  He was escorted out of the centre by GSU officers, sparking celebration from the youths.  According to locals, the situation has normalised and voting is underway in Kimuga Polling Station.  Kipipiri MP Amos Kimunya at Kimuga polling station in Kiambaa. [Emmanuel Too, Standard]  The voting exercise kicked off today at 6:20 am and will continue throughout the day.  The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has warned politicians against interfering with the exercise.  Speaking to the media on Wednesday evening, Kiambaa Returning Officer Peter Muigai said political parties’ super agents will not be allowed in the polling stations.  Jubilee's Kariri Njama will face off United Democratic Alliance (UDA) candidate John Njuguna Wanjiku in a high-stakes vote pitting President Uhuru Kenyatta against his deputy William Ruto.  Jubilee candidate Kariri Njama casting his vote at Gachie Primary School, Kiambaa. [George Njunge, Standard]  Other candidates in the by-election include Richard Njoroge (The New Democrats Party), Isaac Karomo (Federal Party of Kenya), Willie Mbugua (Independent), David Mugo (Independent), Evans Wainaina (Independent), Njoroge Harrison (Independent) among others.  The candidates are seeking to replace former MP Paul Koinange who passed away on March 31.  Kiambaa has got 96000 votes with 154 polling stations.   Amos Kimunya the Majority Leader of the N.A shares his opinion on the presented 2021/2022 budget  BBI Journey: Leader of Majority in the National Assembly Amos Kimunya on what next for the BBI  Amos Kimunya urges youth groups and women to embrace empowerment programs By Standard Team | 1 hour ago By Standard Team | 3 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 11 hours ago By Duncan Khaemba | 12 hours ago