Police officers search the house where the body of Ann Njeri, 33, was found. [Peterson Githaiga, Standard]  A suspect who killed a woman in Kitengela, Kajiado County, and hid her body under the bed for days is still on the run.  Isinya sub-county police boss Charles Chepkonga said detectives are following crucial leads.  "He can run but he cannot hide for long. Our preliminary investigations show that this is murder. We are therefore chasing a murder suspect and we will get him soonest," said Mr Chepkonga.  The body of Ann Njeri, 33, was found on Wednesday under the bed inside their one-room rental house.  Woman who accidentally killed son to know her fate next month  Police arrest woman, main suspect in murder of 8-year-old in Kitengela  Kitengela, the new gangsters' paradise  Body of a girl found dumped in a thicket in Kitengela Police officers at the scene where Njeri was found dead. [Peterson Githaiga, Standard]  Neighbours claimed Njeri's marriage was tumultuous and she often fled to her parent's home to cool off.  According to neighbours, Njeri went missing on Friday after a night quarrel with her husband.  Purity Wangari, a neighbour, told The Standard that she was concerned over odour from Njeri's house and decided to investigate. She alerted locals who later called the police.  "We have been looking for her since Friday last week. We thought she had travelled to her matrimonial home in Kibera, Nairobi. We were shaken to learn that she was no more," said Wangari.  The room where Njeri was found dead. [Peterson Githaiga, Standard]  Mary Nyokabi, Njeri's sister, said she had tried to pull her out of abusive marriage in vain.  "Why kill her like this? I wish they had separated earlier because this could not have happened," said Nyokabi.  Inside the house, police recovered a crude weapon suspected to have been used to kill the woman, whose body was found naked.  The decomposing body had scars all over. There were signs of sexual abuse on her private parts.     Missing 11-year-old girl found dead in Olmaa, Kajiado County, she has been missing since 4th April  Police in Kitengela arrested a bodaboda operator over the kidnapping & murder of an 8-year-old girl  Over 60,000 residents in Kajiado County to benefit from the Oloitoktok water and Sewerage project By Edward Kosut | 4 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 4 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 20 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 22 hours ago