Tiaty in Baringo County has gotten its first-ever tertiary institution after the commissioning of the Chemolingot Kenya Medical Training College at the weekend.  The area is one of the areas hardest hit by rampant incidents of cattle rustling in the North Rift region that has affected development in a big way.  The setting up of the college will offer hundreds of young people from the area an opportunity to improve their lives rather than take part in the age-old tradition of cattle rustling.  Local leaders and principals from various KMTC colleges graced the event described as historic in the region that has been marginalised by rising insecurity.  The college will open its doors to the first batch of 200 students by September this year.  How 24 mourners moved with virus patient from Coast to Siaya and back  Kamket: Ruto’s anger has blinded him, he should quit  Moi calls for leaders to embrace peace and unity  Residents urged to register in large numbers Kabarnet KMTC campus students accompanied their principal Florence Oloo to witness the historic moment.  "Today is is a great day for Tiaty and specifically Chemolingot community," said Richard Adomeyon, the project management committee chairperson.  According to the locals, the establishment of the institutions will go a long way in standardization and improving healthcare service delivery in the region and bridge the gap of limited human resources in health facilities.  The institution is funded by the Tiaty National-Government Constituency Development Funds (NG-CDF) at the tune of Sh 10 million.  An administration block, two lecture halls, a skills laboratory, and an ICT room will be put up using the first tranche  On Friday, MP William Kamket witnessed the groundbreaking of a Sh12.8 million dormitory that will accommodate over 200 students.  He said they will not shy from allocating funds to the institution, adding that the region has numerous health problems. They expect once admitted students to penetrate the interior and attend to the locals.  "We will have our first batch of students admitted in September by March 2022 we will have nursing students here. Whatever it takes I will knock in all government offices till I get what I want for my people and more so pertaining this institution," Kamket said.  He called on the national government to fast track the construction of the North Rift Technical Institution within Tiaty that has stalled for almost a decade.  Mr Adomeyon on behalf of the committee said they were falling short of furniture, ICT equipment, library, college vehicles and permanent water supply.  He called on the KMTC Chief Executive Officer Prof Michael Kiptoo to support the new institution.  "With your blessings and support, we are opening this campus in September 2021 for the first intake. As advised by your technical team and considering the community interest, we wish to start with the training of Community Health Assistants," he said.  Adomeyon pleaded with the CEO to deploy staff and his fulfilment of the Sh50 million pledge he made earlier.  Prof Kiptoo said more classes will be constructed in the next financial year and vehicles, which the community demanded will also be included.  He announced that 30 per cent of places in the college will be set aside for students from the constituency.  The CEO promised to address the issues raised about the library, staff, and other demands by the locals as time goes.  "We need quality and not quantity, students will be attached here and issues of shortage of staff will be addressed. As the CEO I will ensure the institution serves it's purpose," Kiptoo said.  Kiptoo challenged locals to invest in hostels that will accommodate the students.   The Siege of Tiaty: Horror tales of Kenya's wild North captured by bandits killing police officers  Celebration as more than 260 boys are initiated into manhood in Pokot tradition  KTN Weekend Prime Full Bulletin 30th January 2016 By Nikko Tanui | 5 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 day ago By Joseph Kipsang | 1 day ago By Martin Ndiema | 2 days ago