Nyamira Governor Amos Nyaribo is flanked by Members of County Assembly after they held a meeting at Karmel Park hotel in Kisii on 26/4/2021. The leaders agreed to work together. [Sammy Omingo,Standard]  Nyamira Governor Amos Nyaribo has said he will work with the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) to ensure corrupt individuals in the county are brought to book.  He said he will not allow his name to be soiled by corrupt officials in his administration.  Governor Nyaribo spoke at a forum in a Nyamira hotel on Wednesday where he was handed the Corruption Risk Assessment (CRA) report. The report highlights corruption loopholes in both the Assembly and the Executive and gives recommendations.  EACC Commissioner Rose Macharia officially handed over the reports to Assembly Speaker Moffat Teya and Governor Nyaribo. “Take care so that you don’t land into problems with EACC officials,” said Nyaribo.  Exit from EACC haunts Irene Keino's hunt for position  Irene Keino graft agency woes haunt search for IEBC job  Agencies appeal for legal reforms in election laws  Keep aspirants tainted with graft from polls Nyamira County Commissioner Amos Mariba also received copies of the reports.  He said the report will be implemented and noted that it is important to ensure prudent use of public resources and employment of qualified personnel. “Let us always do the right thing,” Mariba said.  In the Executive, the findings in the Human Resource Management relate to lack of an instrument of delegated powers by the County Public Service Board, failure to maintain a skills inventory for its staff and irregular recruitment.  Others include are failure to induct new staff, failure to undertake a training needs assessment, failure to undertake background reference checks for staff recruited by the county executive, lack of staff performance management framework and failure to remit statutory deductions.  On project management, the findings include failure to complete projects within stipulated timelines and failure to ensure that all required project deliverables for the Revenue Collection and Management System are met.  Concerns raised in the Information Communication Technology department include use of personal emails to transact official functions, the use of dissimilar systems and failure to integrate systems, the lack of disaster recovery and business continuity plan and lack of a user management process.   The findings for the Nyamira Assembly Human Resource Management include lack of a scheme of services for different cadres of staff, failure to undertake background checks on certificates before recruitment and failure to put in place a Human Resource Advisory Committee.   I stand by my affidavit,NYS scam suspect Josephine Kabura tells EACC over Waiguru dossier   British government helping Kenya recover Ksh. 525 million stashed in Jersey Island, EACC reveals  Badhii ya wakilishi wa wadi waleta mjadala ya kumn’gatua mamlakani gavana Issac Ruto By Stanley Ongwae | 7 hours ago By Mactilda Mbenywe | 1 day ago By Harold Odhiambo | 1 day ago By Kevine Omollo  | 2 days ago