Senate Majority leader Samuel Poghisio addressing parliamentary leadership at State House, Nairobi. Left, President Uhuru Kenyatta. [PSCU]   A section of West Pokot leaders led by the Senate Majority Leader Samuel Poghisio have urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to step up the fight against corruption with more focus on counties.   Mr Poghisio said counties have become "a hub of corruption" as some top officials are enriching themselves at the expense of locals who fail to get deserved services.   The leaders accused a section of governors in the country of using county resources for campaigns ahead of 2022.     First batch of UK-given Covid vaccines arrives  DP to tour Embu as Mt Kenya East politicians work towards charting own path  Is Muturi the trump card for restless Mt Kenya?  Kenya’s commitment against gender violence is welcome They said corruption "has been devolved" to counties and there is need for various bodies mandated to fight the vice in the country to step in.   Speaking yesterday at Sook ward, Poghisio and Kapenguria MP Samuel Moroto said that Kenyans have been denied services because of corruption.  Poghisio said corruption was rampant in counties and “we don’t need auditors to help evaluate if officers have looted funds. Their living standards can easily help us tell if they have looted tax payer’s funds.”  He said many contractors in counties are doing shoddy jobs.  “If you look at figures of some projects, they are exaggerated and one wonders where County Assembly members are to oversight them," he said.  Poghisio said Kenyans are yet to fully benefit from devolution due to mismanagement of resources as many tenders and contracts are awarded to cronies.    HOUSE OF CARDS: Is the State secretly engineering plot to have a compromise candidate succeed Uhuru?  Rais Uhuru Kenyatta adai kuwa Kenya ipo tayari kwa mashindano ya WRC  Zogo kuhusu Digrii: Murkomen anaandaa mswada bungeni kubadili sheria ya vyeti vya elimu By Standard Team | 1 hour ago By Brian Otieno | 1 hour ago By Standard Reporter | 4 hours ago By Brian Kisanji | 4 hours ago