President Uhuru Kenyatta presented the team representing Kenya at the Tokyo 2020 Olympics with the official travel kit on Thursday.  President Uhuru lauded Team Kenya and promised to support the athletes participating in the much-anticipated event in Japan.  “Kenyan sports have attracted the best talents in the country and our values of hard work and service are deeply entrenched in our athletes. “The 2020 Tokyo Olympics is another opportunity for us to promote success in the sporting world.  “For this reason, my government has and will continue to support you as you take part in this years’ Olympic games,” said Uhuru.  No fans at Tokyo Olympics  Some top golfers are yet to appreciate Olympics  Women rugby team Lionesses hopeful of mauling opponents in Tokyo  Boxer Akinyi‘s cherished dream to feature in Olympics  Kenya's Gaudencia Makokha picked to captain beach volleyball team The kit Inspired by Kenya’s national colours and symbols, will be donned by the travelling contingent that will begin to depart for the Olympic games today.  The volleyball team will be the first group of athletes to leave for Japan ahead of the global showpiece that is scheduled to take place from July 23 to August 8, 2021.  The Head of State presented the kit led by the National Olympic Committee – Kenya (NOC-K) president Paul Tergat at State House, Nairobi during the official send-off ceremony for the team.  Olympics Kenya and Kenya National Paralympics Committee in June signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Ministry of Sports in June.  The MOU was signed after Kenya unveiled its Tokyo Olympics squad with a list of more than 40 athletes.  The MOU is aimed at establishing cooperation and collaboration between the National Olympics bodies and the Ministry, ensuring that there are smooth, well-defined roles by the two institutions with the view to deliver successful Kenyan athletes’ participation in the Games.     Olympic Deal: Ministry of Sports and NOCK sign MoU aimed at improving cooperation  HOUSE OF CARDS: Is the State secretly engineering plot to have a compromise candidate succeed Uhuru?  Uhuru's Legacy Audit: Assessing Kenya's development blueprint | FRONTROW (Part 2)  Uhuru's Legacy Audit: Assessing Kenya's development blueprint | FRONTROW (Part 1)  Former CJ David Maraga faults president Uhuru for rejecting the appoinment of six judges By Reuters | 1 hour ago By Waweru Titus | 3 hours ago By Washington Onyango | 4 hours ago By Reuters | 7 hours ago