He was arrested after the area assistant chief was notified by a concerned resident. [Courtesy]  A 32-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly making guns at his home in Ogenga village, Kasewe B Sub-location, Rachuonyo East, Homa Bay County.  The arrest, which took place on Saturday, came after a local assistant chief Hezbon Asero was notified by the public of the unusual happening in the homestead.  Asero informed police with whom they raided the suspect's home and found him with three homemade guns.  The guns included two pistols and one resembling a G3-rifle. Three live rounds of ammunition were also recovered from the suspect's house.  Kin call for justice, slain daughter to be buried Wednesday  Church elder who prophesised death among two killed as lorry crashes into house  Multi-agency team to lead Kenya’s war on organised crimes  Where girls get pregnant to prove they are fertile "The information I got is that the man has been making the guns in his home. He could be the main perpetrator of the crime in our area," said Asero.  The suspect was first taken to Sori Police post before being transferred to Oyugis Police Station for further interrogation by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations officers.  Rachuonyo East Police Commander Justus Kucha said their preliminary investigations revealed the suspect had been assembling the guns at his home and selling them to unknown gangsters.  "We are still investigating the matter to enable us to get more suspects involved in the use of the illegal guns," Kucha said.  The police boss said the suspect will be arraigned in court once investigations into the matter are completed.    Dr. Amolo who was stabbed by his son passes on  Three injured after al Shabaab attacks a police post in Wajir, manhunt underway  Weekend Prime with Ambassador Martin Kimani Director of National Counter Terrorism Center By Winfrey Owino | 4 hours ago By James Omoro | 6 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 9 hours ago By James Omoro | 14 hours ago