ODM leader Raila Odinga at a past rally. [File, Standard]  An Orange Democratic Movement MP has claimed Raila Odinga is under pressure from Kenyans to run for the presidency in the 2022 General Election.  Alego-Usonga MP Samuel Atandi has said Kenyans have been putting pressure on Odinga to run for the presidency again, based on his track record in the fight against corruption and his history as a democrat.  “They are telling him if he does not run, the country’s resources will be looted and there we will be left with no country,” Atandi told Citizen TV on Thursday, July 8.   Anti-corruption campaign should leave no stone unturned  Seven Kebs officials charged with Sh12.79 million fraud  Ex-KMC boss told to refund Sh11.5m  Kenyans are bent, that is why they see things upside down Although the lawmaker dismissed reports that Odinga had declared his 2022 presidential candidature, saying the 15-point blueprint Odinga unveiled on Wednesday was not an indication that he is a 2022 presidential candidate.  Atandi wondered why those eyeing the presidential seat were interested in Odinga’s candidature to an extent of pushing unfounded reports in the media.  "Odinga never wanted to take another stab at the presidency, but he might be in the race with mounting pressure," the lawmaker noted.  He went on “He said from the word go that he was never interested in the seat, but Kenyans have put pressure on him to run,” said Atandi.  War on graft  The Siaya county-based legislator also threw punches on the Deputy President's way, days after the corruption remarks exchange with ODM leader.  He challenged DP Ruto and his allies implicated in various scandals to first clear their names before making any comments on corruption.  “Where do they get the moral authority to talk about graft when quite a number are facing charges in court over graft? It is immoral. Let them show Kenyans any leader from their camp who has been acquitted of graft in the last three months," he said.   Recently, there has been a back and forth between Ruto and Odinga camp over the war on corruption following Odinga's remarks during his tour of the Coast region.  Odinga, while addressing residents of  Mombasa county, said he will lock up all corrupt politicians should he become Head of State.  He claimed senior politicians in the country have been stealing billions of shillings that they then donate to churches, women/youth groups for political mileage.  “You see them come here in sheep’s clothing and claim they will fundraise for women and youth groups. That is stolen money.”  Odinga's remarks prompted Ruto to hit back on Sunday after attending a church service in Umoja, Nairobi.  The country's second in command accused the ODM leader of condemning corruption while he was a Covid-19 billionaires scandal beneficiary.  “When they were in government, they stole from young people, and while in the opposition they still steal from Kenyans through cartels as they lecture us on the war against corruption,” said the DP.   The Last Word 10th March 2016 [Part 3] : The war on graft  The Last Word 10th March 2016 [Part 4] : The war on graft  The Last Word 10th March 2016 [Part 3] : The war on graft By Patrick Vidija | 8 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 10 hours ago By Jacob Ng’etich | 22 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 22 hours ago