Deputy President William Ruto addresses small-scale traders during an empowerment programme at Rurii shopping centre in Ol Kalou, Nyandarua County. [Courtesy]  Deputy President William Ruto has today told off critics of his bottom-up approach economic model and instead urged them to come up with their own plan ahead of the 2022 General Election.  Addressing small-scale traders during an empowerment programme at Rurii shopping centre in Nyandarua County, Ruto told the NASA leaders to put their house in order and stop making him their campaign agenda.  “They have turned William Ruto into a campaign agenda instead of naming a presidential candidate and coming up with a plan for the country, they will lose,” he said in a Twitter broadcast.  The DP accused his opponents of destroying Jubilee and taking President Uhuru Kenyatta captive, making it difficult for the government to deliver its promises to Kenyans.  He said the ruling party had a good plan for the country before it was hijacked by self-seeking leaders   “We had a good plan of building affordable houses, to build roads and the Big Four Agenda, but they [NASA leaders] came and destroyed all the plans,” he said.  He told off ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi over his anti- bottom-up economic model, saying the approach was about empowering the ordinary Kenyans and not politicians.  Mudavadi who is also touring Nyandarua had warned the region against the hustlers vs dynasty politics, saying it is likely to cause violence.  “Don’t allow politicians divide you along ethnic or social class lines as it was likely to cause violence,” Mudavadi said at St Cecilia Catholic Church in Milangine, Nyandarua County.  Bottom-up kitty  Ruto gave 300 traders at Rurii shopping centre Sh1.5 million to boost their business.  The DP said if United Democratic Alliance (UDA) wins the election in 2022, they will create a kitty similar to CDF where each constituency will receive Sh100 million annually for small-scale traders.  “We will put Sh100 million in each constituency for small-scale traders to grow their businesses, improve their living stands and grow the country’s economy,” he said.  He urged Mt Kenya region to back UDA, saying it was formed by leaders from the region.  “The hustler movement was born here at Mt Kenya region, elected leaders from this region told me to come up with a way of empowering our people first before we talk about positions.”  He said UDA already had a team and a plan, unlike his opponents who were still confused.   “They look confused and talking about positions and reggae yet we have a team, and an agenda to uplift the ordinary citizen,” said the DP.   By Lydiah Nyawira | 4 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 5 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 7 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 7 hours ago