A police officer attached to Nakuru East Police Division has been found murdered in his car parked near his residence in Nakuru Town.  County Deputy Police Commander Joseph Tonui told The Standard that John Ogweno, a constable, might have been killed a few hours past midnight but found in the morning.  "One of our colleagues was found dead at Kasarani Police Line at around 7am by a colleague who reported the incident at Nakuru Central Police Station. The incident is suspected to have happened at around 2:30am," said Tonui.  Tonui explained that Constable Ogweno who was attached to the Crimes department at the station was found lifeless in his car at a parking lot at his Kasarani Police Line residence.  KMTC student raped, stabbed to death in her house  Man, 71, convicted for defiling, impregnating 15-year-old daughter  Multi-agency team to lead Kenya’s war on organised crimes  Okoth Obado seeks to postpone trial on Sharon Otieno’s murder "Ogweno was found in his car, registration number KBV 735 U having its driver’s window broken and the engine running. He was lying on the car seat with blood oozing from the nose," said Tonui.  He explained that the deceased might have been shot at close range based on various pieces of evidence found at the scene.  "It is suspected that he was shot on the right side of the head and bled to death. One empty 9mm cartridge of 9mm was recovered at the scene. The stone used to smash the car window and an iron bar were also recovered and treated as exhibits," said Tonui.  The police have also launched investigations into the incident seeing that the officer's firearm is also missing.  "The firearm issued to the deceased Ceska pistol serial number 94676 is missing. Efforts are in progress to trace and recover the Ceska Pistol," said Tonui.  His body was taken to the PNN mortuary.  Police are in pursuit of Corporal Caroline Kangogo who is a prime suspect in the killing the Constable.   kgachuhi@standardmedia.co.ke      Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death  The widow of Jacob Juma has accused police of dragging their feet in the hunt for Juma’s killers By Bradley Sikolia | 6 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 1 day ago By Nikko Tanui | 1 day ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 2 days ago