Four family members who died in a house fire on July 14 were on Thursday laid to rest at their home in Edgewood village, Subukia, during an emotional sendoff.   Jacinta Wamucii and her children Mary Wanjiru, 6, Harrison Ndirangu, 3, and Elijah Ndirangu aged eight months were buried in a mass grave at their home.   The funeral ceremony was attended by Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui, Senator Susan Kihika, Subukia MP Samuel Gachobe, County Commissioner Erastus Mbui among other dignitaries.   Mr Kinyanjui conveyed President Uhuru Kenyatta's condolences, terming the tragedy as painful for the family of David Mwangi and his five surviving children, four of whom are in school.   “This tragedy was heartbreaking. The President has sent me to condole with you. He has directed me to collect from him Sh1 million to assist the family re-establish their life,” said Kinyanjui.   Death toll in tanker tragedy rises to 20  Fire, what fire? We are Kenyans  Man strangled 18-month old son for refusing to take a bath  Chief, elders arrested over illegal power connections The governor called on the community and religious leaders close to the family to maintain close links with Mwangi and his children to shield them from sinking into depression due to the loss.   Kihika said that the pain felt by the family was inexplicable but lauded the local community for their support to Mr Mwangi who learnt about the tragedy while in Narok.   “These are lives lost and will be a permanent mark of pain in Mwangi’s heart. We can only pray that God gives him the grace to stand strong. He is unarguably a hardworking man having travelled to Narok just to ensure his family has something to eat,” said Kihika.   Mr Gachobe said his office will cater for the education needs of the four surviving children.   “Two daughters are in secondary school and two others are in primary school. In recognition of the tough economic times, we are in, we shall sponsor their education until the time the family gets back to its feet,” said Gachobe.    Tussle over the ownership of land in Ngongogeri, Nakuru threatening peace amongst disputing parties  A total of 24 unclaimed bodies to be buried in Nakuru upon expiry of a 21-day-period  Residents of Nakuru to wait longer before they can enjoy water supply from the Itare dam project By Lynn Kolongei | 1 day ago By Antony Gitonga  | 1 day ago By Stephen Rutto | 1 day ago By Benard Lusigi | 2 days ago