Family members overwhelmed after a class six pupil was killed after a truck rammed into their houses on July 10, 2021. [James Omoro, Standard]  Two people, a 72-year-old man and a 13-year old girl have died after a lorry loaded with cement crashed into a house in Homa Bay town on Saturday morning.  Joseph Ondiegi, an elder with Legio Maria Church, had visited the family of one of the church's members, Hezron Odero at Railways Estate when he met his death.  Odero lost his daughter, Diana Atieno, during the accident. Two other family members were injured.     Where girls get pregnant to prove they are fertile  Manhunt for policeman who assaulted, pricked his wife's genitals with nails  Bizarre: Man found licking dead teacher’s blood in mortuary arrested  Court disbands Homa Bay Municipality Board The elder Ondiegi and his hosts were asleep when the accident happened at 4am.  Ondiegi had travelled from Lambwe in Mbita sub-county on Friday to visit the family.  According to Odero, the church elder had foreseen the accident and had come to pray for his family to avert it.  “Ondiegi had prophesied death would happen in this area and it would be through an accident. He came here on Friday to pray but the prayer meeting failed because of the curfew," said Odero.  He added: "He died before accomplishing his mission. It is sad Ondiegi came here to save us from death but died in the process."  Dianah, Odero's only daughter, was a Standard Six pupil at Lake Primary School in Homa Bay town.  Odero's sons, aged 10 and 15, sustained serious injuries and have been admitted to Homa Bay County Referral Hospital in critical condition.  “We were all in the house. The rest of us escaped death by the grace of God,” he said.  Homa Bay Town Central MCA Julius Nyambok called on the Kenya National Highways Authority to construct bumps on Homa Bay–Kendu Bay road and Homa Bay–Rongo road to reduce accidents.  The MCA called on the county government to support families affected during the accident.  “The affected families have nowhere to sleep. The disaster management department of the county government should step in and support them."  Homa Bay Township assistant chief Dancun Odhiambo said the truck driver is still on the run following the accident.      Dr. Amolo who was stabbed by his son passes on  Members of Catholic Faith in Homabay County want Pope Francis to address the subject of HIV/AIDS   Chama cha ODM chapinga vikali mswada wa sheria utakaokandamiza vyombo vya habari By Anne Atieno | 7 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 1 day ago By Mireri Junior | 1 day ago By Edwin Nyarangi | 2 days ago