Caroline Kangogo, 34, is being hunted for murder, police say. [File, Standard]  A middle-aged woman from Koboiywo Village in Kaptama Location, Bungoma County is receiving treatment at the Kitale County Referral Hospital in Trans Nzoia County after she was shot in alleged case of mistaken identity.  Phanice Chemutai Juma was allegedly shot in the abdomen by Ken Muyundo, a licensed firearm holder, at the Kiminini Market in Trans Nzoia County on Thursday evening, July 8.  Doctors say Chemutai is responding well to treatment, and is in a stable condition.  Ken Muyundo told police that Phanice Chemutai had been calling him incessantly, asking to meet him within Kiminini Market. He further claimed that he and Chemutai were not familiar with each other, and had never met before.  Editorial: Beware, the hunt is on  Peter Ndwiga: Street-smart man who triumphed over academic challenges  Caroline Kangogo eludes DCI search teams  Caroline Kangogo’s colleagues say she is generous, social Muyundo said upon arriving at Kiminini Market where Chemutai was waiting for him, he suspected she was wanted police officer Caroline Kangogo, who is accused of murdering two men in Nakuru and Kiambu counties.  Muyundo, a renowned businessman in Kitale who runs the Iroko Hotel chain, reported at 9:30pm at the Kiminini Police Station that he fired a bullet to scare Chemutai, whom he believed to be Kangogo.  Police, consequently, arrested Chemutai for interrogation.  While at the Kiminini Police Station, a body search was conducted, and it was established that she had been shot in the left lower part of her abdomen.  Chemutai was, thereafter, taken to the Kitale Hospital for treatment.  She told police that she and Muyundo exchanged contacts in the past, and that she was calling him to plan a meeting.  Police have since arrested Muyundo for questioning.  Muyundo’s Ceska pistol, a magazine loaded with ten bullets and a spent cartridge have since been recovered, and will be used as exhibit, police said.     Finally Justice for Kwekwe's family after Court sets a date  Police officers convicted of killing 14 year old Kwekwe Mwandaza to know their fate on Monday  Two police men convicted of manslaughter By Lynn Kolongei | 10 hours ago By Nikko Tanui | 23 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 23 hours ago By Peterson Githaiga | 1 day ago