Kabondo Kasipul MP Eve Obara, Homa Bay Woman Rep Gladys Wanga and Kasipul MP Ong’ondo Were after meeting delegates. [James Omoro, Standard]  The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) has today nullified the nomination of Nereah Oketch as the chairperson of the party Women's League.  Oketch was nominated a fortnight ago by a section of the party officials from the constituency to fill a vacancy left by Ruth Ojuka who died in June.  But yesterday, ODM coordinating committee delegates in the county led by Chairperson Gladys Wanga, Secretary Ong’ondo Were and his deputy Eve Obara held a meeting in which the nomination was revoked.  In the meeting attended by 160 delegates, Peres Ogutu from Karachuonyo Constituency was nominated in an acting capacity.  Addressing journalists shortly after, Were said they decided to quash Oketch’s nomination because it was done irregularly.  “It is wrong for a few people to sit somewhere and purport that they are nominating someone for this seat. The nomination of Oketch is hereby declared null and void,” Were said.  He argued that for one to hold such a position, they must have been elected for a position in the party from a polling station.  Ogutu was unanimously proposed by delegates. She is expected to serve until ODM holds grassroots elections.  “I will serve well in accordance with the ODM constitution,” she said.  Wanga said the time had come for the party to have order in a bid to achieve its objectives.  “We need order in the party so that every party official and member does what is within their mandate,” Wanga said.  The Woman Rep said they were putting arrangements in place to upscale membership of the party.   Chama cha ODM chapinga vikali mswada wa sheria utakaokandamiza vyombo vya habari  ODM Homa Bay Branch Chairperson Monica Amollo died in a road accident   Wakuu wa chama cha ODM wapuuza utafiti wa IPSOS By Harold Odhiambo | 5 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 1 day ago By Kevine Omollo  | 1 day ago By Harold Odhiambo | 2 days ago