President Uhuru Kenyatta cancelled his scheduled tour over Covid-19 fears. [File, Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta’s tour of the Eastern region will now take place, at a date that is yet to be made public, although a very limited number of people will have access to him.  The statement from State House on Tuesday evening, comes hours after his planned tour of the region was cancelled, over fears of Covid-19 spread.  According to State House spokesperson Kanze Dena, the decision to scale down the tour was reached after a joint meeting with leaders in the region.  In view of the directives issued as part of Public Order No. 4 of 2021 on Covid-19 barring ‘superspreader’ events, the meeting resolved to scale down the planned presidential visit to the region,’ Kanze’s statement read.  Three principals vow to dissolve NASA, sue ODM  Jubilee, ODM merger in limbo as Uhuru allies push for deal with NASA  Uhuru's three-day Ukambani tour cancelled  I've seen many things in Kenya including democracy at work   The Tuesday afternoon meeting with the president was attended by former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka, Governors Charity Ngilu and Alfred Mutua, Senators Mutula Kilonzo, Enoch Wambua, Agnes Kavindu.  Makueni’s Kivutha Kibwana was represented by his deputy.  The head of state cancelled his planned tour of the Ukambani region citing fears that the visit may trigger the spread of Covid 19 in the region.   Uhuru’s tour of the Ukambani region was scheduled for Tuesday, June 6 where he was expected to inspect ongoing projects.  On the contrary, reports of infighting between the leaders of the region pitting the governors of the three counties that make up the region against the region’s political godfather and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka.   Governor Charity Ngilu urges Kalonzo and Raila to mend fences and work together ahead of 2022 polls  Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka calls out political leaders who renege on political agreements  HOUSE OF CARDS: Is the State secretly engineering plot to have a compromise candidate succeed Uhuru? By Jacob Ng’etich | 9 hours ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 15 hours ago By George Njunge | 15 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o | 15 hours ago