President Uhuru Kenyatta waves to Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom during the joint virtual visit of Westlands Primary School in Nairobi and Cleves Cross Primary School in Ferryhill, England in May 2021. [PSCU]  Kenya's High Commissioner to the United Kingdom (UK) Manoah Esipisu has said President Uhuru Kenyatta's visit to London this week is aimed at strengthening the Kenya-UK strategic partnership.  Briefing the press in London ahead of the President's arrival, Amb Esipisu said the highlight of the Kenyan leader's visit will be his co-chairing of the Global Education Summit with Prime Minister Boris Johnson.  Amb Esipisu said the aim of the two-day summit scheduled for July 28 is to raise funds for investment in the education of millions of vulnerable children around the globe.   “The target for this fundraiser is Sh5.5 trillion. Most of the money has already been raised over the last few months...the President has been busy talking to fellow Heads of State around the world, urging them to put the money where their mouth is; to take action to protect their budget for education, take action to increase their budget for education and take action to fund specific areas of education that they have previously lagged,” he said.  UK Covid-19 cases pass 50,000 for the first time since January  President Uhuru received by French counterpart Macron in Paris  Let the vaccinated travel, UK air industry demands  Don't let the pub reopenings go to your head, warns Johnson The Kenyan diplomat indicated that during the visit, President Kenyatta will hold bilateral talks with PM Johnson to review other areas of the Kenya-UK strategic partnership.  He pointed out that the strategic partnership is a broad framework for cooperation that covers a wide array of bilateral subjects between the two nations among the trade and investment, and security cooperation among other sectors.  “It (strategic partnership) does include security and defence. Regional security specifically because we, as Kenya, live in a fairly tricky region. And we collaborate with our partners around the world, including the UK, to deal with these security imperatives,” Amb Esipisu noted.  Also on the President's to-do list will be discussions on climate change especially in the Kenya-UK agenda for the forthcoming Conference of Parties (COP26) in Glasgow.  Amb Esipisu disclosed that President Kenyatta and his hosts will discuss the progress of the Big 4 Agenda initiatives leading to the signing of an agreement between the Nairobi International Finance Centre and the city of London.  “These are some of the highlights of the issues the President will face, deal with and resolve on behalf of the Kenyan people and for the Kenyan people while he is here in the United Kingdom,” Ambassador Esipisu said.  President Kenyatta is expected in London on Tuesday at the start of his official visit to the UK at the invitation of his host, Prime Minister Boris Johnson.   President Uhuru Kenyatta donate land in Taita Taveta  State House defends President Kenyatta’s foreign trips and number of delegates that accompany him  10,000 police officers 10,000 NYS officers to maintain order during papal visit By Paul Ogemba | 22 seconds ago By Robert Abong'o | 11 hours ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 14 hours ago By Wainaina Ndung’u | 14 hours ago