Kenya is among the countries represented in the African Covid-19 Response Commission following the appointment of Amref-Africa CEO, Dr Githinji Gitahi, as one of the 17 members from the continent.  Gitahi, also a member of the Private Sector Advisory Board of Africa CDC and a vocal advocate of Universal Health Coverage, said the appointment is a "reaffirmation that Africa believes in its experts.”  The appointment of Gitahi, who is also a Board Member at the Standard Group, follows the appointment of South Africa’s President, Cyril Ramaphosa, as the African Union (AU) champion on Covid-19 during the 34th Ordinary session of the AU.  During the inaugural meeting held Tuesday, President Ramaphosa noted: “Despite the development of a vaccine, we are still a long way from permanently containing the pandemic.”    Reopening was not a bad idea but we might 'lock down' again — Dr Githinji Gitahi  Yes we can reopen the economy but are we ready for the aftermath? — Dr Githinji Gitahi asks  We should consider many things before reopening the economy — AMREF CEO Dr Githinji Gitahi  We have a bigger percentage of people infected with COVID-19 but they do not know — AMREF CEO Dr Githinji Gitahi The commission’s mandate is to identify gaps in the continental Covid-19 response strategy and propose evidence-based interventions.  Further, the commissioners will also support the work of the African Vaccine Acquisition Task Team to access safe and effective Covid-19 vaccines for the continent and manufacturing security-related commodities.  The 17 commissioners will also table recommendations for managing the "twin pandemics" of gender-based violence and Covid-19 in Africa besides identifying funding for the commission's work.       Shot in the Arm: Dr. Githinji Gitahi shares his opinion on Covid-19 vaccination drive in Kenya (2)  "Where are people most likely to get infected?" Dr. Githinji Gitahi on Kenya's Covid-19 Curve  Discussion with Dr. Githinji Gitahi on Kenya's Covid-19 Curve By Brian Otieno | 10 hours ago By Too Jared | 11 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 11 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 12 hours ago