WRC Safari Rally champion Sebastien Ogier has celebrated Kenya and donated over Sh2.5 million to the Nakuru Children’s Project and Ol Pejeta Conservancy.  As a gesture of goodwill, Ogier has contributed €10,000 towards the children’s project and another €10,000 to support the Ol Pejeta Conservancy.  “Few weeks ago we were celebrating our 4th win of the season at Safari Rally Kenya with incredible support from the locals in the most amazing nature. “This wonderful country got a place in my heart – and I want to give something back.  “Education is the key for a better future so I want to support the Nakuru Children’s Project with €10,000 and we should do everything in our power to protect this wildlife so I will also make a donation of €10,000 to the Ol Pejeta Conservancy,” said Ogier in a tweet on Tuesday.  Safari Rally: Power of Sports in Enriching National Identity  Cliff Laban Onserio shifts focus to national rally  Emerging Stars jet out ahead of Cecafa U23 Championships  Vihiga Queens in cold as Caf Women’s Champions League qualifiers postponed  Kisumu All Stars call for suspension of NSL games due to Covid-19   Sebastien Ogier extended his lead at the head of the World Rally Championship title race with victory in the Safari Rally last month.  Ogier benefitted from early retirement of Belgian’s Thierry Neuville, who broke his right rear shock absorber during the day's first special stage.  Frenchman Ogier came home 21.8 seconds ahead of his Toyota teammate Takamoto Katsuta with the Estonian Ott Tanak third in his Hyundai.  It was Ogier's 53rd career victory and his fourth of the season, putting the Frenchman in control of his quest to collect an eighth title.  The seventh round of the WRC takes place in Estonia from tomorrow to Sunday (July 15-18).    Final day highlights of the WRC Safari Rally 2021 | SCORELINE  WRC Safari Rally: Kenya to host WRC event in June, Naivasha town to be the nerve center  Mashindano ya Safari Rally siku ya 1; Onka Rai ameongoza mchujo wa kwanza | Zilizala Viwanjani By Reuters | 1 hour ago By Waweru Titus | 2 hours ago By Washington Onyango | 2 hours ago By Washington Onyango | 3 hours ago