In a complete change of routine, the new school year begins today. Ordinarily, and for as long as Kenyans can remember, a new school year usually begins in January and runs through to December. This state of affairs was upset by the advent of in March 2020.  Closure of learning institutions was among the measures the government took to stop the spread of Covid-19. The uncertainty surrounding the virus, for which there was no cure or vaccine, led to our schools remaining closed for 10 months. The need to recover that lost time necessitated a rescheduling of the school calendar, which education experts hope will go back to normal by January 2023.  Schools are reopening at a time the threat of Covid-19 is still very much alive. Ministry of Health reports indicate that the Covid-19 prevalence rate stands at about 13 per cent, which is way above the five per cent recommended by the World Health Organisation as safe to relax containment rules.  Schooling must, however, continue despite the large number of learners per institution across the country. The import of this reality is that school managers must not, even for a moment, lower their guards. If anything, they must be more vigilant and uncompromising in the enforcement of compliance to Ministry of Health containment measures that include sanitising, wearing face masks, keeping social distance and washing hands.  There are many challenges to be overcome, including setting up additional classes and purchasing school furniture. Due to the shortened school terms and financial constraints imposed by Covid-19, most parents feel the pinch of paying school fees. It is incumbent upon individual schools and parents to reach an understanding on the modalities of paying school fees so that no learner misses out.  US will not lift travel restrictions, citing Delta variant, White House says  Maasai Mara roars back to life ahead of wildebeest migration  Do more; decrees on fees won’t lessen the heavy burden on parents  Commission cautions school heads against flouting fee guidelines  KEMRI makes a breakthrough in the fight against Covid-19 by developing a Virus Transport Media (VTM)  Nyanza clergy speak on Covid-19 guidelines imposed on the 13 counties  Janga la Covid-19: Wanafunzi nusu milioni hawakurejea shuleni baada ya likizo ndefu ya miezi tisa By Alexander Chagema | 1 year ago By Alex Chagema | 1 year ago By Alexander Chagema | 1 year ago By Alexander Chagema | 1 year ago