Three women, one seven months pregnant, were among the victims of the July 17 oil tanker fire near Yala. [Collins Oduor, Standard]  The death toll in the Malanga petrol tanker fire incident in Siaya has risen to 20.  One more person succumbed to injuries at the county referral on Thursday following the fire incident seven days ago.  The 33-year-old patient had sustained 70 per cent burns.  13 people were killed on the spot when the petrol tanker overturned and caught fire. [Collins Oduor, Standard]  Mother, three children killed in house fire laid to rest  Fire, what fire? We are Kenyans  Identification of Siaya tanker victims begins as families seek closure  Hand over fuel siphoned from Siaya tanker, PIEA tells residents Gem OCPD Mosero Chacha said seven people admitted at the county referral after the accident had died.  "Two more people with burn injuries also turned up at Yala Sub-County Hospital on Thursday for treatment," said the OCPD.  The number of patients receiving treatment at the county referral hospital stands at 19 while the total number of victims of the tragedy now stands at 47.  The truck collided with another vehicle on a highway between Kisumu and Busia. [Courtesy]  Governor Cornel Rasanga, while addressing the press, said out of the 13 bodies that were burnt beyond recognition, six were male while seven were female.  "As of yesterday, DNA analysis had been done for the 13 who died on the spot... Samples were collected from 15 individuals who reported missing relatives after the fire incident. Process of sampling began Wednesday," said the governor.  He appealed to well-wishers to support the county government to foot the bills of those who are still hospitalised.  People had rushed with jerrycans to siphon off fuel from the overturned tanker before it exploded. [Courtesy]  "We are also supporting bereaved families with burial expenses and some token," he said.  Thirteen people died on the spot when residents rushed to siphon fuel from an oil tanker that had collided with a truck carrying milk on July 17.   Plight of the Kyanguli Boys parents whose sons dies in dormitory fire tragedy 15 years ago  Mai Mahiu tanker crash leaves one person dead  Patron of Stephjoy boys high school grilled by CID over fire tragedy that left three students dead By Harold Odhiambo | 2 hours ago By James Omoro | 1 day ago By Isaiah Gwengi | 1 day ago By Mactilda Mbenywe | 2 days ago