The body of Junior Musyoka was found at a thicket in Spring Valley, Nairobi on Tuesday, July 13. [Courtesy]  Police in Nairobi on Wednesday retrieved the body of a third child in Spring Valley, Nairobi after two others were recovered at the same scene on Tuesday.  The latest discovery is that of a 10-year-old boy who went missing from his parents’ Nairobi home. The exact estate where the boy was abducted remains unclear, police said.  The third recovery comes just a day after two other children aged below 10 were on Tuesday night, July 13, found dead at the same scene.  One of the two children has been identified as Junior Musyoka. He went missing from his parents’ Biafra Estate home in Eastleigh, Nairobi last week.  Omar Lali sobs uncontrollably during Tecra Muigai’s death inquest  After 24-year search, Chinese man reunited with kidnapped son  Condom contents found near Sharon Otieno’s body analysed, results presented in court  Ransomware: The new threat to Kenyan businesses Musyoka’s mother, Felister Musau, told The Standard she had received a call from an anonymous caller last week demanding a Sh50,000 ransom, warning the child would be killed if she failed to send the money.  Another child, a girl, whose body was found near that of Musyoka, was reportedly kidnapped in Buru Buru, Nairobi.  The two children went missing on June 30 and July 1 in unclear circumstances.  A key suspect in the abductions and murders has been arrested.  Police told The Standard the suspect, who was traced to his rented house in Kitengela, Kajiado County, led detectives from the criminal intelligence and special service units to the scene, where the minors’ bodies had been dumped.  “Investigations indicate the children were kidnapped from different estates in Nairobi, including Buruburu, and murdered after failed ransom demands,” a DCI officer stationed at Gigiri said.  Police officers from the Spring Valley took the children’s bodies to the City Mortuary, awaiting post-mortem.  The key suspect in the minors’ deaths is being held at Shauri Moyo Police Station.   Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death  The widow of Jacob Juma has accused police of dragging their feet in the hunt for Juma’s killers By Betty Njeru | 11 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 12 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 13 hours ago By Kamore Maina | 17 hours ago