Wiper Kalonzo Musyoka (right) at Akamba Handcraft in Mombasa, July 30, 2021. [Kelvin Karani, Standard]  Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka yesterday said ODM leader Raila Odinga does not owe him a political debt.  Kalonzo was addressing members of Akamba Handcraft at Changamwe in Mombasa yesterday, where he also said he will fight those who are insincere and out to hoodwink the public with fancy economic plans.  "ODM leader Raila Odinga has no political debt for me although I supported his bid to be the president of this country in the last two general elections,” said Kalonzo.    Former Baringo governor to face off with his successor in 2022 election  What Raila’s latest forays into Mt Kenya means for local politicians  NASA death gives Raila tough option of hunting in hostile ground  Raila calls for compulsory health insurance for the unemployed Kalonzo has in the past insisted that he had a deal with Raila to back him in the 2022 presidential race.  However yesterday, he said he shared some ideology with Raila, and insisted he is ready to chart another political path away from the ODM leader.  “I have no problem with any leader in this country. I related with each of them very well and that is why I'm now ripe to be the fifth president of this country,” he said.  Raila Odinga (left) with Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka(Right) at Orange House, February 23, 2018. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  He also hit at Deputy President William Ruto, claiming he was misleading Kenyans with his hustler narrative.  The wiper leader was accompanied by Kitui Senator Enock Wambua and Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo.  He is scheduled to hold the Wiper National Delegates Conference at a Mombasa hotel today   What would it take to dislodge DP Ruto and Raila as the 2022 frontrunners? | HOUSE OF CARDS  ODM leader Raila Odinga says he will transform the public service to make it more responsive  Raila Odinga ametoa mapendekezo kuhusu mageuzi katika sekta ya utumishi wa umma By Julius Chepkwony | 1 hour ago By Phares Mutembei | 1 hour ago By Philip Mwakio | 1 hour ago By Brian Otieno and Ndungu Gachane | 1 hour ago