Caroline Kangogo (inset) is accused of killing two men. Left, her father Barnaba Kibor gestures outside Iten Referral Mortuary. [Peter Ochieng, Standard]  The family of fallen policewoman Caroline Kangogo has announced it will set the new burial date once her postmortem rescheduled for Tuesday has been done.  The policewoman accused of killing two men, including her colleague in Nakuru, before turning the gun on herself 10 days later was set to be buried yesterday at her parent's home in Nyawa village in Elgeyo Marakwet but failed when a scheduled autopsy was not conducted.    According to Mark Kangogo, Caroline's brother, they do not want to be subjected to another emotional and psychological torture if they set the date for her internment before an autopsy is done.  Kangogo’s burial postponed after stand-off  John Ogweno’s widows meet at his burial, eulogise him as ‘loving, caring’  Kangogo, her victim Ogweno’s families meet at crime scene   Video: Emotions high as Caroline Kangogo’s victim John Ogweno’s body leaves Nakuru mortuary "We have been promised by DCI officers in Iten the autopsy will be conducted on Tuesday. We are waiting for that day then we plan for the burial," he said.  He said they are seeking closure and asked the DCI not to disappoint them once again.  Caroline Kangogo's family outside Iten Referral Mortuary. July 23, 2021. [Peter Ochieng, Standard]  The funeral committee chairman Emmanuel Kiplagat said they conducted several fundraising in order to ensure they gave Kangogo a befitting send-off.  "We have already spent over Sh400,000 to organise the burial. We slaughtered two bulls, among other foodstuffs," said the funeral committee chairman.  Caroline Kangogo's kin preparing potatoes at Nyawa village, Elgeyo Marakwet County, July 23, 2021. [Peter Ochieng, Standard]  He said they sourced refrigerators from the neighbourhood that have enabled them to chill the meat.  "It is only the meat that has been chilled but other food, including vegetables and potatoes, have since been consumed," he said.  Caroline Kangogo's kin preparing meat at Nyawa village, Elgeyo Marakwet County, July 23, 2021. [Peter Ochieng, Standard]  Government Chief Pathologist Johansen Oduor confirmed he will conduct the autopsy on Tuesday.    By Kennedy Gachuhi | 20 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 day ago By Lynn Kolongei | 2 days ago By Antony Gitonga  | 2 days ago