Agriculture CS Peter Munya during a Kenya dairy field day at the University of Embu on July 23, 2021.[Muriithi Mugo,Standard]  Meru leaders have dismissed a meeting called by Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya that was attended by several governors.  CS Munya and governors Lee Kinyanjui (Nakuru), Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga), James Nyoro (Kiambu), Ndiritu Muriithi (Laikipa), and acting Nairobi governor Anne Kananu met in Meru where they stated they will hold vigorous campaigns to ensure there is unity in Mt Kenya.  “There is no split in Mt Kenya. Those trying to split it are individuals trying to advance the political agenda of some camps and we are now coming to block attempts to divide us,” Munya said. He dismissed the installation of National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi as the region's spokesperson.    Should Mt Kenya region vote as a bloc in 2022?  JB Muturi will be a formidable force in 2022 polls and beyond  Muturi: Impeachment motion a creation of media  Technocrats visit to projects show Uhuru’s Mt Kenya visit neigh But MPs Rahim Dawood (North Imenti), Mugambi Rindikiri (Buuri), Halima Mucheke (Nominated), and Meru Deputy Governor Titus Ntuchiu were among those who yesterday said they had not been invited to the meeting at the Kenya Methodist University.  “No MP from Meru was invited. I was not invited by CS Munya or his people,” Mr Dawood said.  “He (Munya) never invited me. There was no local involvement, just some governors from outside (Mt Kenya East) region. There was no single MCA or woman rep,” said Mr Ntuchiu.  The deputy governor said in inviting leaders from outside Meru for a political forum in Meru was a plan by Munya to raise his political profile.  “He cannot resuscitate his political fortunes, he is finished on the ground. As people of Mount Kenya East, we will not allow outsiders to decide for us. We are coming up with our own political party,” Ntuchiu said, dismissing the Party of National Unity which is associated with Munya.  Meru Assembly Majority Leader Victor Kariithi dismissed the meeting as inconsequential saying it was not consultative.  “It was a meeting that was just trying to create disharmony within the people of this region. We categorically continue to confirm that speaker Justin Muturi is our spokesperson, he was coronated by elders, and church elders prayed for him. We as leaders led by Governor Kiraitu Murungi denounce some political leaders who came to Meru led by Munya,” he said.  But Meru Assembly Minority Leader Ayub Bundi dismissed claims that area leaders were not invited, saying MCAs could not attend the meeting as they were in Mombasa.  Mr Bundi said just as Kiraitu was fronting Muturi he (Bundi) was for Munya to be the spokesperson of the region.  “We could not be at the meeting, but we were not opposed to it,” he said.  Former Igembe North MP Joseph Eruaki said it was regrettable that while unity is what was needed, divisions had hit the region.  “TSP leader Mwangi Kiunjuri was not there, governor Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi), Senator Mithika Linturi was not there. We have to engage as stakeholders. We need all leaders in Meru and the region to be focused and objective,” Eruaki said.  pmutembei@standardemeedia.co.ke    MT Kenya Politics : 2022 succession divided region  By Muriithi Mugo | 1 day ago By Biketi Kikechi | 2 days ago By Fidelis Kabunyi | 2 days ago By Brian Okoth | 3 days ago