South African President Cyril Ramaphosa has authorised the use of 1,495 members of the military to help neighbour Mozambique fight an Islamic State-linked insurgency, parliament said on Wednesday.  The use of the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) comes after southern African regional bloc SADC last month approved the deployment of troops to Mozambique to combat a conflict which began in 2017 and has killed thousands.  Ramaphosa said the SANDF personnel would be used between July 15 and Oct. 15 at an expected cost of 984 million rand ($66.3 million), a letter sent to the speaker of parliament showed.   President Cyril Ramaphosa. [Reuters]  In the letter. Ramaphosa referred specifically to authorising the employment of SANDF members and did not spell out how many of those would be soldiers deployed on Mozambican soil.  South Africa engulfed by tensions of three decades  Cyber attack disrupts major South African port operations  Death toll in South Africa riots rises to 276, minister says  S.Africa lets jailed ex-president Zuma attend brother's funeral The conflict in Mozambique's northern Cabo Delgado province has displaced hundreds of thousands and brought a natural gas project led by French energy company Total Energies to a grinding halt.   Burnt-out huts are seen at the scene of an armed attack in Chitolo village, Mozambique, on July 10, 2018. [Reuters]  At the time SADC nations authorised the deployment of the bloc's standby force, they did not say how many troops would be involved.  Ramaphosa's letter said South Africa's military would help Mozambique combat "acts of terrorism and violent extremists that affected the area of Cabo Delgado".    International Hard Rock Cafe launches in Nigeria's Capital Lagos  KCB posts after tax profit of 19.62 billion Shillings in its 2015 full year results  South African protesters demand President Jacob Zuma's resignation By Reuters | 1 hour ago By Betty Njeru | 23 hours ago By Reuters | 1 day ago By Reuters | 1 day ago