The alliance of four political parties, One Kenya Alliance (OKA) has extended an olive branch to ODM leader Raila Odinga to join them, the KANU chairman Gideon Moi has announced.  The Baringo Senator said their outfit that brings together Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, ANC's Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya Leader Moses Wetangula has welcome Raila and other leaders in a move seen as a strategy to edge out Deputy President William Ruto in the State House contest.  Speaking on Sunday at AIC Kyondoni in Kitui County during a fundraiser, Senator Gideon said that a strong alliance would ensure that the country was united.  "We are firmly in OKA together with my brother Kalonzo and but doors are wide open to accommodate more leaders. We want Raila and others to join us. We can’t afford to lock others out because everyone has a part to play in building the country," he said.  Gideon revealed that OKA in which he belongs will be expanded to embrace and accommodate other political leaders in a bid to form a formidable coalition ahead of next year's general elections.  With BBI on life support and proving to be a fragile bet, what’s next for political elite?  Uhuru tours Ukambani as Raila shows up to Kalonzo’s surprise  Why BBI failure would be a blessing in disguise for Raila  Raila: We shall respect the court's decision on BBI The Senator also said he hoped the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) Bill appeal case will sail through, noting that Kenyans stood to gain once the referendum process, that seeks to amend the Constitution, is concluded.  "We should all pray that the BBI appeal goes through so that the process can resume," the senator stated.  Gideon appealed to Kenyans to elect leaders who have their interests at heart, adding that the country should choose leaders who have demonstrated the ability and will to fight corruption.  He also appealed to church leaders not to allow themselves and the places of worship to be misused by politicians during the electioneering period.  The Senator particularly asked church leaders to question the source of money and whatever donations they receive from politicians. He regretted that some had turned the church into market places where ill-gotten wealth is laundered.  "The church is an extension of Christ and we should guard it against any form of sin. You need to question the source of money that is brought to church," he cautioned.  He spoke even as Raila also rooted for the unity of the coalition party, a position also taken by President Uhuru Kenyatta who is reported to have implored on the National Super Alliance (NASA) members to remain united in their quest to succeed him in 2022 polls.  Others who attended the fundraiser were ICT Cabinet Secretary (CS) Joe Mucheru, Broadcasting and Telecommunications Principal Secretary (PS) Esther Koimett, and Kenya Film Classification Board Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Ezekiel Mutua.  Others in attendance were Kitui Senator Enock Wambua and MPs Makali Mulu (Kitui Central) and Edith Nyenze (Kitui West).  Senator Wambua asked Senator Gideon to work closely with Kalonzo, saying the two were God-fearing and Kenyans resonate well with their leadership values.  "We have other leaders in this country who might force other people into exile once they get into power," Senator Wambua claimed without mentioning names.  Senator Wambua, at the same time, tore at Raila for what he called gate-crashing during the recent President Kenyatta's Ukambani development tour, which he said was strictly the Kamba community's affair.  The Senator said Raila was not invited and "it was not proper for him to gatecrash".  "We want political decency in this country. If you have not been invited, don't come. For Raila to have come to our meeting, that was not right. We request him any other time the president is coming, please don't come. We have our own issues we want to tell the president," Wambua said.  MP Mulu urged Moi to support Kalonzo for president in the 2022 general elections.  Pmuasya@standardmedia.co.ke       Governor Charity Ngilu urges Kalonzo and Raila to mend fences and work together ahead of 2022 polls  Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka calls out political leaders who renege on political agreements  Kalonzo Musyoka awasuta viongozi wanaokiuka mikataba ya kisiasa punde tu baada ya uchaguzi By Patrick Beja | 7 hours ago By Robert Kiplagat  | 12 hours ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 12 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi and Moses Nyamori | 12 hours ago