A suicide note allegedly left by Andrew Omolo. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  The relatives of a man whose decomposing body was discovered in his Donholm apartment are not convinced the suicide notes found there are authentic.  Although more than two suicide notes were found in the house, the family of Andrew Omollo, 31, suspect foul play claiming they were not written by him.  Nicholas Nzuku, the caretaker of the apartments, said he had not seen Omollo for a week.  “I thought he had travelled because the last time we spoke was the previous Friday,” Nzuku said.  At least 8 killed in Mogadishu by suicide bomb targeting government convoy  Boy commits suicide to avoid joining Class Eight  Antivirus entrepreneur John McAfee dies in Spain by suicide, lawyer says  Suicide among leading causes of death in teens – report   Six days later, Nzuku sensed something was amiss when a pungent smell started emanating from Omollo’s bedsitter on the 7th floor of the block in Ebenezer Court.  He peeped through an opening and saw a body leaning on the washroom wall. The television was on.  Police at Donholm Patrol Base who arrived at the scene broke into the house since the door had been locked from inside.  The caretaker, who rented the house to Omollo in April, described him as an outgoing person who often threw house parties.  A cord was found around Omollo's neck, and two suicide notes were recovered - one addressed to his parents and another to one Lavenda.  “I tried to live but my mistakes were too much to bear. This life is no longer my own, it belongs to everyone,” read the note addressed to his parents, while the one addressed to Lavenda read “I am sorry I wasn’t what you thought I was, the struggle was too much to bear. I love you.”  However, a family member disowned the notes insisting they were not in Omollo's handwriting.  His mother Mary Omollo said an autopsy showed he died from strangulation. A police officer said they are treating the incident as suicide.     Death in a Cell: 29-year-old student allegedly committed suicide while in police custody in Makueni  Vijana wafunga barabara katika mitaa za Donholm na Umoja na kutatiza usafiri  A Police constable commits suicide after shooting his wife dead in Embu By Pkemoi Ng’enoh | 11 hours ago By Josphat Thiong’o  | 16 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura | 1 day ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 1 day ago