Lawmakers allied to the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) have claimed the impending arrest of Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua is linked to the ongoing Kiambaa by-election campaigns.  Speaking in Kiambaa yesterday, the MPs, led by Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata, vowed not to be intimidated.  The MPs claimed Gachagua was being targeted for siding with Deputy President William Ruto and leading the UDA Kiambaa by-elections.  “It is a pity that the government has decided to arrest and harass UDA supporters campaigning in Kiambaa. Ngunjiri Wambugu and Priscillah Nyokabi are campaigning for a Jubilee candidate yet they are not from the region. But they are claiming we are outsiders,” said Mr Kang’ata.    One Kenya Alliance in bid to harmonise pact and pick flagbearer  Karim Khan withdraws from Gicheru's case  Women lobby launched as campaigns hot up   Damaged. Dismembered. Destroyed: DP Ruto on Jubilee party He claimed government used similar tactics in Juja but failed, as PEP candidate George Koimburi won.  They said they will not be intimidated in their resolve to win the seat.  “We call upon all Kiambaa residents to turn out in large numbers to vote for the UDA candidate. A revolution is real in Kiambaa and residents have resolved to vote for Wanjiku irrespective of any pressure from any quarters,” he said.  At the same time, Jubilee leaders shot back on the allegations that Gachagua’s arrest is linked to Kiambaa campaigns.  Gachagua has been on sleuth’s radar over Sh12.5 billion allegedly banked into his accounts.  Some of the accounts associated with the lawmaker have been frozen.  The Asset Recovery Agency (ARA) in October filed an application seeking to have Sh200 million held in three bank accounts of the MP forfeited to the State.  ARA wants the court to declare that Gachagua acquired the Sh200,773,228.3 through crime and looting of public funds.      Musalia Mudavadi embarks on his charm offensive in the coast region ahead of the 2022 elections  Wanajeshi 74 warejea nchini, walikuwa wanalinda salama Dafur, Sudan  Cracks in UDA? Sibling rivalry threatens UDA unity with leaders angling to be DP's pointmen By Moses Nyamori | 23 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 23 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 1 day ago By Fidelis Kabunyi and Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 day ago