An aerial view of Eastleigh. [File, Standard]  Two suspected robbers have been Killed in Nairobi’s burgeoning Eastleigh Estate.  The two were among a six-member gang that had allegedly plotted to rob a hardware in the area.  In a tweet posted today, The Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) said the two were shot dead by Pangani-based officers, who responded swiftly to a distress call.  The DCI said the gang had broken into Jamarat Hardware in Eastleigh’s 4th Street before they were busted by the police.  Prison warder linked to kidnapping ring in Kasarani  New team takes over children murder case as more dump sites found  City women leaders petition state to contain abductions and killings  Police halt search for children as families talk about last moments “In a bid to clear the city off criminal gangs, the officers responded swiftly and gunned down two of the thugs. Earlier, the misfits had arrived at the hardware aboard a pickup truck to stage their brazen robbery,” tweeted the DCI.  The George Kinoti-led department said the timely response by the officers forced the gang to flee.  “The armed hoodlums had, in a bid to evade arrest, fired at the officers; their bullets missing a corporal leading the onslaught by a whisker. Unbowed, the officers responded decisively, fatally injuring two gangsters. Four others escaped with gunshot wounds,” stated the DCI.  A pistol with three rounds of ammunition, claw bars and other crude weapons were recovered from the scene.  Two water tanks that the suspected robbers had allegedly stolen from the hardware were recovered.  Detectives are pursuing the other four who escaped with gunshot wounds.   23-year-old woman, Hafsa Mohamed, who went missing in Eastleigh has been rescued by police in Kayole  Hafsa Aokolewa: Msichana aliyekuwa ametekwa nyara Eastleigh amepatikana Kayole  Drama as Police hault planned robbery on Barclays Bank By Hudson Gumbihi | 2 hours ago By Brian Okoth and Brian Obuya | 1 day ago By Pkemoi Ng’enoh | 2 days ago By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 3 days ago