GSU officers during a search operation of the missing corporal Joseph Otieno (inset) at a quarry in Gituamba farm, Mwiki. [Courtesy]  Police are conducting a search in Kasarani and its surroundings after their colleague Joseph Otieno attached to the GSU headquarters in Ruaraka, Nairobi went missing on Friday, July 9.  Speaking to Standard on phone, Kasarani OCPD Peter Mwanzo said a multi-agency team comprising detectives drawn from DCI, and the GSU have been dispatched to conduct a search for the missing officer.  “Mwanzo said so far they have not been successful but will return to Mwiki area and its surroundings on Tuesday to continue the search.  "We conducted the search around Gituamba farm, Mwiki where the last car track signal was traced," the lead Mwanzo said.  He said the officers also visited all nearby morgues on Monday, but still, they haven’t been able to locate Otieno.  “We started our search on Friday and went to mortuaries around in case of the death but still we cannot trace him,” said the OCPD.  His wife Caroline Adhiambo and children also joined the search team nearby quarry after detectives said they traced the car to the quarry before being abandoned in Mwiki.  According to a police report, Otieno was last seen on Friday, July 9 when he left home in a hired car never to return.  Adhiambo told the police that her 36-year-old husband’s phone was on until 11:13 pm on Friday.  “His phone signals were last located around Naivas Supermarket in Ruaraka before being switched off,” Adhiambo said in a police report recorded in Kasarani Police Station.  Adhiambo made a missing person report after the car Otieno hired on the fateful day was found abandoned in Mwiki, Kasarani.  "His whereabouts unknown and the car he was using officer was found abandoned in Mwiki, Kasarani," the occurrence book (OB) report read.  The car was towed to Mwiki Police Station after being found abandoned by the roadside on Friday night   By Pkemoi Ng’enoh | 1 day ago By Josphat Thiong’o  | 1 day ago By Jacinta Mutura | 2 days ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 2 days ago