The four are said to have committed the offence on July 1, 2018, at a nightclub in Mwea East. [Courtesy]  A court in Kirinyaga County has sentenced to death four men found guilty of robbery with violence.  Principal Magistrate Gideon Mutiso convicted Isaak Kariuki Ndambiri, Kennedy Gachoki Kanguru, James Gitonga Wawira and Christopher Bundi Mbogo of killing two people and maiming two others in a robbery incident.  The four, jointly with others not before the court, are said to have committed the offence on July 1, 2018, at a nightclub in Ndindiruku, Mwea East sub-county.  Ms Margaret Wanjiku Mwangi was robbed of Sh200,000 and killed alongside Stephen Muriithi Mwangi.  Kenya's dumbest criminals: When crooks are clueless on how to spend the loot   Police highlight crime hotspots, advise Kenyans on how to avoid being a victim  Two shot dead, four injured in botched Eastleigh robbery  Operations Manager, five others jailed for stealing Sh30 million from bank The court heard the four, armed with an AK 47 rifle, also shot and maimed James Kimani and Kelly Nyawira, who can no longer fend for themselves.  It also emerged that Robert Mwangi, the husband of Ms Mwangi and brother of the late Kimani, was impacted by the robbery since his liquor business went under.  Mwangi asked the court to give a maximum sentence to the four persons.  Justice Mutiso ruled that the convicts had not shown any remorse despite committing the serious crime. [Courtesy]  “When they gunned down my wife, I was left with an infant whom I continue to nurture. And under such circumstances, I can hardly go for any meaningful employment,” he said amid tears.  Ms Nyawira, who was maimed in the robbery incident, pleaded with the court to sentence to death the four men.  “I was forced to quit employment due to the serious injury I sustained. I urge this court to send them to the gallows," said Nyawira.  Defense lawyer Nduku Njuki, in his mitigation, told the court that his clients were still innocent and the police were yet to arrest the perpetrators of the heinous crime.  Justice Mutiso ruled that the convicts had not shown any remorse despite committing the serious crime.  “I find the convicts have no respect for others and even upon being given an opportunity for mitigation, they continue to deny having committed the crime which the prosecution and the witnesses proved beyond reasonable doubt,” Mutiso ruled.  The magistrate also said, although the death sentence was discretionary, the four deserved it.    Coffee farmers from Kirinyaga county set to benefit from value-addition machines  Kirinyaga & Narok listed as counties with most opaque budgets after scoring zero points in survey  Drama as Police hault planned robbery on Barclays Bank By Boniface Gikandi | 23 hours ago By Phares Mutembei | 2 days ago By Muriithi Mugo | 3 days ago By Biketi Kikechi | 4 days ago