Matiang'i says deployment of more administrative officers and a Deputy County Commissioner will help to end the North-Rift Border clashes. [File, Standard]  The Ministry of Interior and Co-ordination has vowed to staff up administrative units on the Baringo, West Pokot and Marakwet counties to eradicate the on and off border clashes.  This comes at a time when efforts by North Rift Economic Bloc (NOREB) leaders to end the clashes have bore no fruits.  In a peace meeting at Kenya School of Government in November 2020, the leaders had vowed to bring to an end the conflict brought about by cattle theft but months into the agreement, nothing significant has been achieved.  “We need to support our teams across the country. We will hire more administrators in this area to help us eradicate the clashes witnessed here,” Matiang’i said.  Leaders now shift focus to vote-rich Rift Valley counties  Reliving the exploits of Happy Valley  Grounds where the Rift Valley charts its political paths  Ruto allies outline issues to raise with Uhuru as he tours Rift Valley   Matiang’i also directed the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to oversee the appointment of a Deputy County Commissioner to act as a watchdog of the area and rework police deployment to the area.  “Rift Valley region is very wide therefore, we understand it might be hard for a regional commander to get real-time updates of the occurrence here. That is why we are assigning another commissioner,” Matiang’i explained.  While meeting local leaders in Kerio Valley on Tuesday, July 13, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i promised residents they will start the hiring process on Monday, July 19.  According to Matiang’i, the new DCC will help in conveying information to the senior officers without any delay experienced, for easy planning.  Among the leaders the CS met are governors John Lonyangapuo of West Pokot, Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet, Stanley Kiptis of Baringo and Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen.  The meeting was held at Tot AIC following increased insecurity in the area (Baringo, West Pokot and Marakwet), which left at least 10 people dead in the last fortnight.  Previous media reports indicate that killings in the area occur despite the ongoing security operation aiming to recover illegal guns and flush out armed criminals.   The insecurity has left a GSU operation commander dead as other security officers are nursing various injuries.   Section of politicians want CS Fred Matiang'i impeached over allegations of abuse of office  NIght of Horror: GSU officer attached to CS Matiang'i office shoots dead his wife & commits suicide  Cabinet Retreat kicks off at the Great Rift Lodge By Julius Chepkwony | 1 hour ago By Julius Chepkwony | 6 hours ago By Fred Kibor | 11 hours ago By Kennedy K Gachuhi | 17 hours ago