DCI boss George Kinoti (pictured) on Tuesday, July 6 announced new changes to the agency's top administration. [File, Standard]  The Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) boss George Kinoti has made 44 changes to the agency’s top administration.  The changes have been instituted following retirement of several senior officers.  Nairobi DCI chief Bernard Nyakwaka has been moved to the airport unit. His Kitale counterpart, Paul Wachira, will replace him at the helm of criminal investigations in the city.  Former airport DCI boss Joseph Mugwanja, replaced by Nyakwaka, has been recalled to the headquarters.  Phone log data leads to arrest of murdered KMTC student’s boyfriend  Two suspects arraigned over kidnap of Kamukunji businesswoman Hafsa Mohamed  DCI: Fake gold business involves some reputable agencies  Two suspects behind Hafsa Lukman’s kidnap arrested John Gachomo, who headed the anti-terror police unit, has been made the new head of investigations at the DCI.  Gachomo takes over from John Kariuki, who retires after 33 years in the service.  The head of anti-terror unit in Mombasa John Otieno, takes over from Gachomo at the helm of anti-terror police unit nationally.  Bernard Gicheru, who was the deputy director of operations, has been elevated to the position of director of operations, taking over from Henry Ondiek, who has retired.  Laikipia DCI chief Francis Wanjau has been transferred to Kisumu in similar capacity.  Carrey Nyawinda, who was the deputy head of investigations at the DCI, has been named the new head of banking fraud unit.  David Chebii, who was the head of anti-counterfeit unit based in Parklands, Nairobi, has been transferred to the DCI Headquarters on Kiambu Road as the head of call centre, popularly known as the Fichua Centre.  Fatuma Hadi, who was the DCI boss in Kilimani, Nairobi, has been recalled to the Headquarters awaiting redeployment.  Hadi is replaced at Kilimani by Stephen Ole Tanki, who was the DCI boss at Gigiri.  Pius Gitari has been promoted to the position of director of the expanded special service unit. He had served in the unit in a junior position.  Julius Rutere, who was the DCI boss in Nyandarua County, has been recalled to the DCI Headquarters in Nairobi. Rutere has been replaced by Adan Guyo, formerly of Kisii County.  Abdalla Komesha, who was the head of banking fraud unit, now under Carry Nyawinda, has been moved to the National Centre for Counterterrorism as the boss.  Zipporah Mboroki, who was at the DCI training school as trainer, has been transferred to the National Police College Academy.  Vincent Kipkorir, who was the DCI officer in Athi River, has been redeployed to Makadara in a similar capacity. Kipkorir succeeds Henry Kiambati, who proceeds on retirement.  Francis Ndiema, an officer formerly attached to the forensics department, becomes the new deputy head of personnel at the DCI Headquarters. He takes over from Emily Wangare, who has exited the service.  Charles Mwangi Kanyuira, formerly of Kisumu, is the new Kajiado DCI officer.  Nathan Njoroge, who was the deputy head at the Parklands-based anti-counterfeit unit, will now head investigations at the Parklands centre.  Former Kasarani DCI boss Jack Owino is now the new head of personnel in Garissa County.  Samuel Kobina, who was the DCI boss in Kitui, has been moved to the DCI academy as the deputy director. Kobina will be replaced in Kitui by Lawrence Okoth.  Others redeployed are Stephen Chacha (Western region), Johnston Kola (North Eastern) and Johana Kirui (DCI Headquarters).  Amos Teben, who was the DCI boss in Kiambu County, will now be the director of complaints.   Finally Justice for Kwekwe's family after Court sets a date  Police officers convicted of killing 14 year old Kwekwe Mwandaza to know their fate on Monday  Two police men convicted of manslaughter By Kamau Muthoni | 1 hour ago By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago By Patrick Kibet  | 9 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 13 hours ago