Wajir County Governor Ahmed Ali Muktar has embarked on hosting a citizen engagement forum, across the county to engage with the people and find out what priorities they need in the remaining year.  Murkar, who was sworn in in May this year after the impeachment of Governor Abdi Mohamud has held five consultative dialogue forums dubbed Xilkena (Wajibu Wetu) with the citizenry of Wajir aimed at enhancing good governance, human rights and gender equality, with the last one held at Wajir ICT hall.  Muktar told The Standard he wants to ensure as servants of the people, it is was the civic duty of leaders to at all times inform the public on services, engage and incorporate their opinions in executing them.  "We are going to entrench public engagement at all times to ensure that out leadership is responsive to the people's needs, we are going to have the citizen participation as an integral part for our governance and compliance to the rule of law, " said Muktar.  Impeached Wajir Governor's official vehicles withdrawn  Wajir governor seeks to mitigate drought  Impeached Wajir Governor insists that court order puts him in charge  Wajir County needs sober leadership urgently He said the people of Wajir need servant leadership and he was determined to provide that.  The governor has also embarked on impromptu visits to sub-counties to assess the implementations of projects, including boreholes and health centres. He insists these were his key priority areas. He said Wajir County Government is committed to ensuring residents get access to clean water and healthcare services.  During a visit to Griftu Sub-County Hospital, Barmil and Shanta Abaq health centres, governor Muktar claimed he is mainly considering improving the status of those two vital compartments.  "I have satisfactorily assessed the situation of the centres, it's on record that more is required to uplift the art of service delivery on the same, plans to improve the current situation are underway," Muktar said.   Wajir Governor impeachment verdict to be rendered on Monday by the Senate Special Committee  Kamati maalum yatarajiwa kutoa maamuzi kuhusu madai yanayomkabili Gavana wa Wajir  The Senate's Committee probing the impeachment of Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi has started hearings By Ali Abdi | 15 hours ago By Ali Abdi | 7 days ago By Antony Gitonga and Julius Chepkwony | 11 days ago By Bakari Angela | 12 days ago