Dickson Njanja Mararo at a Milimani court on Tuesday, July 6, 2021. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  A businessman accused of shooting two police officers and a waitress at Quiver Lounge in Kasarani, Nairobi, has been charged with attempted murder.  Dickson Njanja Mararo appeared before Milimani Chief Magistrate Martha Mutuku and denied the three charges of attempting to kill the three victims.  The charge sheet read that on July 2, at about 10pm at Quiver Lounge in Kasarani, Mararo attempted to cause the death of officers Fetus Musyoka, Lawrence Muturi and waitress Felistus Nzisa by shooting them at close range.  Businessman Dickson Njanja Mararo. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  Let all Kenyan athletes know the rules on anti-doping before games  Businessman accused of shooting officers in Nairobi detained for seven days  John Ogweno: The family man who left manager job for police service  Police officer’s phone snatched while controlling traffic in Roysambu He was charged after police completed their seven-day investigation. The prosecution had asked the court to deny the accused bail, pending the hearing of his trial.  They had asked the court to give them until Tuesday next week to file an affidavit detailing the grounds to have him denied bail.   "Your honour, one of the officers who was shot in the neck is still admitted at Nairobi hospital in critical condition, and is fighting for his life after undergoing surgery,” said the prosecution.   Mararo was first presented at the court on Tuesday last week, and police Chief Inspector Geoffrey Ndatho attached to DCI sought more time to conclude the investigation. The Investigating Officer had informed the court that on July 2, the suspect, armed with a firearm, shot three people at a city club within Kasarani in Nairobi County.   Businessman Dickson Njanja Mararo. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  He identified the three as police Constable Lawrence Mururi from Kasarani police station and Police Constable Festus Musyoka from Starehe. A waitress, Nzisa, was shot while on duty.  The three were taken to hospital after the shooting. Police Constable Muturi, who had been shot in his arm was treated and discharged, while Nzisa and Musyoka were admitted to the hospital.  The court was informed that after the shooting incident, Mararo escaped from the scene and disappeared until July 5. He had not reported at any police station as required for every licensed firearm holder.  Prosecution was granted up to Tuesday next week to detain the suspect. It is then that they will present Mararo to the court for bail determination.   Mashindano ya riadha ya idara ya wanajeshi  Mbio za First Lady Marathon kuandaliwa Machi 6  Riadha ya chipukizi kufanyika Kasarani By Hudson Gumbihi | 2 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 1 day ago By Kamore Maina | 1 day ago By Kamau Muthoni | 2 days ago