The victim firmly held the explosive device in his hands before it exploded, harming him in the groin and lower limbs. [Courtesy]  A middle-aged man from Isiolo Town is receiving treatment at the Isiolo County Referral Hospital after an explosive device went off on his groin.  The victim was at a bar in Isiolo Town, when the suspect, in his early 30s, hurled the explosive device at a woman alleged to be his ex-girlfriend. The device, however, missed the target and landed on the victim’s groin.  Shocked, the victim who was seated while taking his drink, firmly held the grenade in his hands to stop it from exploding, but it was too little too late.  The suspect’s target, who is in her early 20s, had allegedly broken up with the man, said to be a police officer in Isiolo town.  Two ministries to manage new varsity for KDF  Hyenas invade villages in Isiolo, flee with body parts  Students beat up teacher who asked them to stop eating from sufurias  KAF holds requiem mass for 11 officers who died in chopper crash The incident occurred in the wee hours of Tuesday morning, July 20.  Police are also investigating how the nightclub was still operating despite the existence of a 10pm-4am curfew rule.  The nightspot is located on a street that is usually flocked by commercial sex workers targeting clients from the neighbouring Meru, Samburu and Laikipia counties.  Confirming the incident, Isiolo Sub-County police boss George Kariuki told The Standard Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) detectives have taken up the matter.  “We received the report of a man harmed by a grenade,” he said.  “We’re still trying to establish the type of explosive device that the assailant carried to the scene. We’re also interviewing eyewitnesses to understand the events that led to the attack,” said Kariuki.  Some of the people questioned are the nightclub’s owner, workers and patrons.  “We understand the suspect was targeting a certain person in the crowd,” added the Isiolo Town police boss.  Authorities say had the explosive device hit the floor, “several casualties could have been recorded”.  “The man who intercepted the grenade is very lucky to survive such a dangerous attack,” said Kariuki.  A waitress at the nightclub told The Standard that the suspect and the victim were regular customers at the bar.  “The suspect is a police officer and the victim is a Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) soldier. Both are stationed here in Isiolo,” she said on condition of anonymity.  Another eyewitness, who is privy to the relationship between the suspect and his ex-lover, said the man was slighted after the woman broke up with him in May and got into a new relationship, almost immediately.  A medical officer at the Isiolo County Referral Hospital, who spoke to The Standard in confidence, said the patient was brought to the hospital in the wee hours of Tuesday morning.  “The explosion completely ripped his genitals and lower limbs. He was stabilised, but would need transfer to a more equipped hospital to manage his injuries,” he said.  Police have launched a hunt for the suspect, who fled to an unknown destination after the attack.   Mashindano ya WRC yakamilika, Washukiwa wakuu wa Utekaji wakamatwa, Mapigano Isiolo | MBIU WIKENDI  Tension high along Isiolo-Samburu border following clashes between rival herders from two counties  NSL Action: Kenya Police 2-2 Modern Coast Rangers By Peterson Githaiga | 8 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 12 days ago By Patrick Vidija | 12 days ago By Julius Chepkwony | 13 days ago