Rebranded William ole Ntimama Stadium in Narok town. [Robert Kiplagat, Standard]  Narok’s only stadium has been rebranded and renamed after former Cabinet Minister William ole Ntimama, two years after a government declaration.  The 20,000-seater stadium in Narok town had been refurbished in 2019 to host the 56th Madaraka Day celebrations.  Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed approved the request to rebrand and rename the stadium on February 22, last year. However, the renaming was delayed due to legislative and procurement hurdles.  On July 26, Narok County government workers supervised the rebranding of the facility.  17-year-old student killed in clashes over 30-year land row  Bunge Chronicles: Why Olekina in shuka does not amuse wahesh  Watch out for my song that will expose corruption- Senator Ledama   Police officer killed, seven people injured in accidents The decision to rename the stadium was made in October 2019 during the burial of former Transport and Licensing Board Chairman Hassan ole Kamwaro when Ntimama’s daughter, Lydia, requested the government to honour her father.  Ntimama, who died on September 1, 2016, was a legendary politician, a defender of the Maasai community’s rights. He served for 15 years as the chairman of the defunct Narok County Council and 25 years as MP. He also served as a minister under presidents Daniel Moi and Mwai Kibaki.  Yesterday, County Sports Director Benson Kariuki said the stadium will motivate the youth from the community, as many are talented in sports but have never had an opportunity to showcase their talent.  “We have finally implemented the government directive. It might have delayed a bit but we are finally there,” said Kariuki.  The renaming comes a fortnight after ODM leader Raila Odinga appealed to Narok Governor Samuel Tunai to rename the stadium during the burial of Ntimama’s wife Dorcas Pedelai.  Lydiah Ntimama said the recognition was well-deserved.   Kirinyaga & Narok listed as counties with most opaque budgets after scoring zero points in survey  Hofu ya kuzuka kwa maradhi ya Kipindupindu imetanda katika shule ya upili ya wavulana ya Narok   Tapeli apewa kichapo cha umbwa na wananchi Narok By Stephen Rutto | 1 hour ago By Antony Gitonga  | 2 hours ago By Gilbert Kimutai | 3 hours ago By Nderitu Gichure | 12 hours ago