Joanna Stuchburry was shot dead in her driveway. [Courtesy]  President Uhuru Kenyatta has condemned the killing of Kenyan environmentalist Joanna Stuchburry and ordered security agencies to track down the perpetrators of the heinous act.  Ms Stuchburry, renown for her relentless efforts to conserve Kiambu forest, was shot dead by unknown people on Thursday afternoon at her home.  In his message of condolence to the family, relatives and friends, President Kenyatta said his administration greatly appreciates the contribution of Ms Stuchburry in conserving the environment.  “It is very sad, unfortunate and regrettable that bad people have senselessly taken away the life of Joanna Stuchburry in such a senseless manner.  Make or break for Uhuru, Ruto as voters head to polls in Kiambaa  Uhuru endorses appointment of envoys to steer anti-malaria efforts in Africa  Why Uhuru has only six months with full cabinet  I would have appointed six judges frozen out by Uhuru, Ruto says "For the longest time, Joanna has been a steadfast champion for the conservation of our environment and is remembered for her relentless efforts to protect Kiambu forest from encroachment," the President mourned.  The Head of State promised Government action to track down and apprehend killers of Ms Stuchburry terming them cowardly enemies of the Kenyan nation.  “My Government will pursue and apprehend the criminals behind the killing of Joanna. We will not allow few misguided individuals to continue shedding blood of innocent people working hard to make Kenya a better place for all of us. Those are cowardly enemies of our country,” President Kenyatta said.  The President prayed to God to give the family of Ms Joanna Stuchburry strength and fortitude to bear the tragic loss of their loved one.   HOUSE OF CARDS: Is the State secretly engineering plot to have a compromise candidate succeed Uhuru?  Rais Uhuru Kenyatta adai kuwa Kenya ipo tayari kwa mashindano ya WRC  Zogo kuhusu Digrii: Murkomen anaandaa mswada bungeni kubadili sheria ya vyeti vya elimu By Sara Okuoro | 3 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 5 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 15 hours ago