One Kenya Alliance (OKA) has extended a hand to ODM party leader Raila Odinga to join them, KANU Chairman Gideon Moi has announced.  The Baringo senator said the alliance of four political parties, which brings together Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Amani National Congress' Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula, welcomed Raila and other leaders to join and form a formidable coalition ahead of next year's elections.  Speaking on Sunday at AIC Kyondoni in Kitui County during a church service and fundraising, Senator Moi said a strong alliance would ensure that the country was united.  "We are firmly in OKA together with my brother Kalonzo Musyoka, but doors are wide open to accommodate more leaders. We want Raila and others to join us. We can’t afford to lock out others because everyone has a part to play in building the country," he said.   The senator said he hoped that the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) Bill appeal case will sail through, noting that Kenyans stood to gain once the referendum process, that seeks to amend the Constitution, is concluded.  OKA welcomes Raila Odinga to join them, says Gideon Moi  Raila makes fresh forays in Coast to regain foothold, erode DP gains  Editorial: The big reveal  Uhuru tours Ukambani as Raila shows up to Kalonzo’s surprise "We should all pray that the BBI appeal goes through so that the process can resume," the senator said.  Gideon appealed to Kenyans to elect leaders who have their interests at heart and who have demonstrated the ability and will to fight corruption.  He also appealed to church leaders not to allow themselves and places of worship to be misused by politicians during the electioneering period.  The senator particularly asked church leaders to question the source of money and whatever donations they receive from politicians. He regretted that some had turned the church into market places, where ill-gotten wealth was laundered.  "The church is an extension of the body of Christ, and we should guard it against any form of sin. You need to question the source of money that is brought to the church," he cautioned.  He spoke even as Raila also rooted for unity, a position also taken by President Uhuru Kenyatta who has been reported imploring upon the National Super Alliance (NASA) members to stick together in their quest to succeed him in the 2022 transitional polls.  In attendance was ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru and Principal Secretary for Broadcasting and Telecommunications Esther Koimett.  Others were Kenya Film Classification Board Chief Executive Officer Ezekiel Mutua, Kitui Senator Enock Wambua and MPs Makali Mulu (Kitui Central) and Edith Nyenze (Kitui West).  Senator Wambua urged Moi to work closely with Kalonzo, saying the two were God-fearing leaders whose values resonated with Kenyans.  "There are some leaders who might force other people into exile once they ascend to power," said Wambua without mentioning names.  At the same time, the Kitui senator tore into Raila for what he said was gate-crashing of President Kenyatta's Ukambani development tour.  The senator said this was strictly the Kamba community's affair.   "We want political decency. If you have not been invited, don't come. For Raila to have come to our meeting, that was not right. We are requesting him that any other time the president is coming, please don't come. We have our own issues we want to tell the president," said Wambua.  MP Mulu urged Moi to support Kalonzo for president in next year's election.  Pmuasya@standardmedia.co.ke         Governor Charity Ngilu urges Kalonzo and Raila to mend fences and work together ahead of 2022 polls  Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka calls out political leaders who renege on political agreements  Kalonzo Musyoka awasuta viongozi wanaokiuka mikataba ya kisiasa punde tu baada ya uchaguzi By Moses Nyamori | 45 minutes ago By Jael Mboga | 1 hour ago By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 13 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 13 hours ago