Health officials have, once again, pointed fingers at politicians over the surge of Covid-19 cases—this time in Nairobi and its neighbourhood.  An increase in cases has been recorded in the city and Kiambu County only days after the Kiambaa Constituency and Muguga Ward by-elections.  The latest surge goes to prove that our politicians never learn from their mistakes. This is because currently Nyanza and western and neighbouring counties are smarting from increased cases of Covid-19 infections.  The number of cases shot up in the region soon after Kisumu hosted this year’s Madaraka Day, which saw prominent politicians being mobbed by people within the town.  Sadly, a similar upsurge was witnessed after the by-elections in Nakuru and Naivasha early this year.  Covid-19 testing kits held at port as shortage bites  Lack of medics, kits cited for high Covid-19 deaths  Men, elderly lead in vaccine uptake, ministry says  Innovative ways to keep staff morale up in pandemic Some politicians, including nominated MP Maina Kamanda, conceded that they contracted the virus during the by-election campaigns.  Yet despite the danger posed by such gatherings, our politicians continue to behave as if things are normal and to mingle freely with members of the public.  This is despite a presidential order banning public gatherings, including political meetings.  Politicians must not be allowed to endanger the lives of their gullible supporters anymore. It is imperative that police enforce the presidential order without fear or favour.  It is nonsensical for the officers to enforce the night curfew strictly, but allow politicians to hold super-spreader events in broad daylight.  If we are to triumph over this virus, all the prescribed protocols must be observed by both the lowly and the mighty.   KEMRI makes a breakthrough in the fight against Covid-19 by developing a Virus Transport Media (VTM)  Nyanza clergy speak on Covid-19 guidelines imposed on the 13 counties  Janga la Covid-19: Wanafunzi nusu milioni hawakurejea shuleni baada ya likizo ndefu ya miezi tisa By Editorial | 6 hours ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 5 days ago