The illegal connections were done by a private company. [Standard]  An assistant chief and three community policing leaders have been arrested over illegal power connections at a village in Molo, Nakuru County.  Molo Sub-County Police Commander Samuel Mukusi said the four, who were arrested on Thursday evening, were in charge of connections scheme as they led local residents in pooling money before engaging a company to undertake the project.  “Kenya Power visited the village and established that the connections were illegal,” said Mr Mukusi.   Kenya Power employees dismantle illegally installed power supply infrastructure in Molo. [Standard]  Man reunites with grandmother to look for brother he saw in 1970  Nakuru residents in rush for title deeds after elevation to city  Danish firm gets nod to buy thermal plant  KenGen rules out rationing of electricity The four suspects were later released on free bond.  The illegal connections were done by a private company that received nearly Sh3 million from villagers who contributed Sh28,000 per household.  Johnson Wamwangi, who is in charge of Kenya Power office in Molo, said his staff were not involved.   “The connections were being done in total disregard to the Energy Act. They were placing the lives of the beneficiaries in great danger,” said Wamwangi.   Kenya Power employees were deployed to remove poles and power cables. [Standard]  Kenya Power employees were deployed to remove poles and power cables amid protests from local residents.   “A transformer installed to serve the 100 households was among two that were stolen in Sobea earlier this year. We shall ensure justice is served for the victims,” said Wamwangi.  He said Kenya Power had designed a connection plan for the affected households which was being considered under the last-mile connectivity programme.     Tussle over the ownership of land in Ngongogeri, Nakuru threatening peace amongst disputing parties  A total of 24 unclaimed bodies to be buried in Nakuru upon expiry of a 21-day-period  Wind farm operated by KenGen, is one of the main reasons why people like to visit Ngong Hills By Hudson Gumbihi | 14 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 15 hours ago By Collins Kweyu | 19 hours ago By Gilbert Kimutai | 19 hours ago