Prof Boaz Nyunya taking the oath of office in July 2020. Right, Kisumu Principal Magistrate Joan Wabilyanga. [Kepher Otieno, Standard]  Kisumu County Health Executive Prof Boaz Nyunya is dead.   Prof Nyunya died on Thursday while undergoing treatment at a Nairobi hospital.  A statement released by Governor Anyang' Nyong'o did not disclose the cause of Nyunya's death.  Prof Nyong’o described Nyunya as a dependable minister whose footprints will remain in the county health sector which he led for slightly over a year.  Man stabbed to death as rival political factions clash at Kisumu burial  Anyang' Nyong’o wins accolades for newlook city  Governors praise debt waiver for cane farmers  Governor Nyong'o pleads with health workers over strike Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong'o. [David Njaaga, Standard]  The governor said Nyunya was an experienced medic, researcher and scholar who transferred his expertise to the county government following his hiring last year.  “During his short stint at the department, Prof Nyunya created a brand for exemplary services. At the Cabinet, he kept us on our toes with detailed and accurate delivery of Covid-19 reports and mitigation measures in the country,” Nyong’o said in a statement to the press.  Nyong’o said the 65-year-old former lecturer at Moi University has been the epitome of professionalism and hard work.  “Prof Nyunya, his Chief Officer Dr Gregory Ganda and the CEO of Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital Dr George Rae, had in the past few months firmly embarked on a massive overhaul of the county’s health system. We will remember him [Nyunya] for driving the Kisumu Marwa Health Insurance Scheme which targets vulnerable families,” said Nyong’o.  Prof Boaz Otieno after taking the oath of office in July 2020. [Kepher Otieno, Standard]  Prof Nyunya also worked at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital and the Centres for Disease Control before joining the Kisumu County government in 2020.  “As a county, we have lost a worker and a team player who instilled visionary leadership and gave real direction to the department, giving real meaning to quality healthcare provision. On behalf of the County Government of Kisumu, I send my heartfelt condolence to the family, friends and professional colleagues following his demise,” said Nyong’o.  The Kisumu West native was also a consultant obstetrician-gynaecologist and a public health practitioner, researcher and leader in reproductive health.   Police holding 8 teenage girls found posing for nude photos at a Kisumu public park  CORD leader Raila Odinga and his brigade call for IEBC commission to quit office  Former Kisumu Rural MP and cabinet minister in KANU government, Wilson Ndolo Ayah is buried By James Omoro | 2 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 3 hours ago By James Omoro | 2 days ago By Harold Odhiambo | 3 days ago