KWS rescues stray lion spotted in Rongai, Kajiado County. [KWS]  The Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) has captured a stray lion that caused panic in Ongata Rongai, Kajiado County.  In a statement on Wednesday, July 28, KWS said the lion, a male sub-adult (an animal yet to reach adult stage) was spotted stuck between a concrete wall and iron sheets in the residential town.  Members of the public then alerted KWS that dispatched its officers to the scene, managing to dart and subdue the animal.  “The lion was successfully darted, immobilized and safely transferred to the veterinary facility for observation and collaring before being released back to the park,” KWS said.  CS Balala: KWS owes victims of human-wildlife conflicts Sh14b  Inside dark, impenetrable world of illicit trade in wildlife trophy   From poacher to the end user - the intricate web of wildlife criminals  Rally drivers urged to adopt wildlife Members of the public crowd to watch KWS rangers immobilizing stray lion. [KWS]  It is not an isolated case as incidents of human-wildlife conflict continue to grow in various parts of the country.  In March this year, The Standard reported that some stray lions had killed four people and cattle in the Maasai Mara and injured two others.  The lions encroached into communal land in Talek, terrorising villagers.  KWS wishes to thank the public for the prompt alert and cooperation during the capture exercise. We urge the public to report such occurrences on our toll free 0800597 000#BraveryBeyondExpectation pic.twitter.com/sP424QBDEa — KWS (@kwskenya) July 28, 2021 KWS has however urged the public to report such occurrences to 0800597 000, to avert further damage.   CORD leader Raila Odinga terms the burning of ivory stockpiles as a PR exercise  Kenya set to burn 105 tonnes of Ivory, KTN's Denis Onsarigo with the update  World leaders converge in Kenya to discuss how to eliminate poaching By Stephen Rutto | 15 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 1 day ago By Nikko Tanui | 1 day ago By Robert Kiplagat  | 1 day ago