The decomposing body of a student at the Kenya Medical Training College (KMTC) was over the weekend found in her rental house.  Emily Chepkemboi’s body which was covered on the bed was discovered by neighbours who got suspicious over a foul smell from the house.  It is suspected that the first-year student who was pursuing a diploma in clinical medicine was murdered inside her house on Friday night before her body was discovered on Sunday afternoon. It is believed that the student was raped before being stabbed to death with a knife.  The assailant locked the door and left the compound without being noticed by neighbours who are also students. The student was not seen the whole of Saturday but her friends thought she had gone elsewhere for the weekend.  But on Sunday afternoon, neighbours were alarmed by a stench from Emily’s house. When they peeped into the room through the window, they were shocked to see a swollen body on the bed. The neighbours alerted the school administration and security officials who broke the door.  Man, 71, convicted for defiling, impregnating 15-year-old daughter  Police constable murdered in his car, pistol missing  Tiaty gets first tertiary college  53-year-old caretaker charged with defiling two minors in Kisumu Chepkemboi's body had stab wounds on the head, neck and back.   “We are handling the matter to ensure appropriate measures are taken against those who committed the heinous act,” Homa Bay Sub-county Directorate of Criminal Investigations Officer (DCIO) Monica Berege said.  KMTC students called on security officials in the area to ensure justice for their fallen colleague is served.  “We call on our security officers to investigate the matter and bring the culprits to book. We don’t want a repeat of this incident to any of us,” said the Chairman of the Student Representative Council in the college David Odhiambo.  Chepkemboi lived in an iron sheet walled room neighbouring at least eight other rooms occupied by her fellow students.  The students said there was loud music in her room on the night when the incident occurred.    Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death  The widow of Jacob Juma has accused police of dragging their feet in the hunt for Juma’s killers By James Omoro | 2 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 4 hours ago By Lucas Barasa | 12 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 15 hours ago