William Ruto says the idea of postponing polls is propaganda. [File, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto has blasted recent talks by politicians on the possibility of postponing the 2022 General election until the proposed Constitutional changes (BBI) are made.  While addressing his supporters after attending PCEA Umoja Church in Nairobi, DP Ruto termed the proposal to push forward next year’s polls as ‘propaganda’.  “The elections will be held on the second Tuesday of August next year as is required by the Constitution. Don’t listen to those who want the poll postponed, those are just cold threats,” Ruto told the charged crowd, chanting his name on the steps of the church.  The DP also threw punches towards the ODM leader Raila Odinga, telling him off after his corruption remarks in Mvita, Mombasa County on Saturday, July 3.  Raila in series of meetings as Coast politicians hope for endorsement  Jubilee, ODM must re-evaluate themselves to avoid humiliation in 2022  I'm now a bad man, but was good when I made you PM, Ruto to Raila  I'm ready to show you political direction, Gideon tells Baringo Ruto dismissed Odinga’s remarks, claiming the former Premier's tenure was marred with embezzlement of funds meant for youth development.    In his Coastal tour on Saturday, Odinga said he will arrest and jail all corrupt leaders should he become president next year.  The long-time opposition leader directed his sentiments to the DP Ruto, saying all the donations and freebies given in church are proceeds from taxpayer’s money.  Odinga also faulted Jubilee Government’s Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), saying it had no value for tax payer’s money and that it was expensive.  “Ethiopia has over 700 km of rail which is cheaper compared to our own which is only about 400km,” he added.  Saturday remarks by the ODM leader marks the first time he is criticizing the government since the March 9 2018 handshake between him and President Uhuru Kenyatta.  The handshake saw Odinga and Uhuru come together in the spirit of building bridges and peaceful co-existence among communities, a dream that has been so far quashed by the courts.   Governor Charity Ngilu urges Kalonzo and Raila to mend fences and work together ahead of 2022 polls  Coalition Jitters: DP Ruto faults Jubilee and ODM coalition, says hustlers will back UDA  Ruto asema katiba si lazima wakati huu, Kenya inahitaji kuboresha uchumi kuliko jambo lingine lolote By Mireri Junior | 2 hours ago By Titus Too | 8 hours ago By Steve Mkawale and Titus Too | 9 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 12 hours ago