The eagerly awaited Athletics Kenya National World Under-20 trials started at Kasarani Stadium on Thursday, July 1, 2021.  The action started with the Local Organising Committee (LOC) testing for Covid-19 all journalists covering the event.  Kenya is set to host the World Athletics event from August 17-22 in Nairobi, where 122 countries will take part. Day two (Friday) final highlights:  Peter Kithome emerged the winner in the 400m Hurdles finals.  Kenya's Okoth steps up training on his speed as he eyes Olympic medal  NOCK must stick to Covid rules ahead of Tokyo Games  Top Kenyan stars set for epic clash at Kasarani  FKF president Mwendwa explains logic behind Tusker's qualification for Champions League  Big dreams as budding athletes clash at Under-20 national trials "I want to congratulate my coaches for helping me get to this level. It will be my dream to be a medalist come August," said Kithome.   Keringet’s Maurine Cherotich won the 5,000m final in 15:44.26 at Kasarani Stadium on Friday.  "I am really happy to have cut the team. My hope is to win the Under 20 title and make the country proud. I will train even harder since I don't expect it to be easier during the World Championships,” Cherotich told the press after the mouthwatering race.  Margaret Gati of Nyanza South won the women’s 10km walk finals as Jecinta Mutheu of Eastern finished second on Friday.  Day one (Thursday) final highlights:  High Jump Finals  Dar-Ziv Nyah Jemeli cleared 1.68m to win women’s high jump finals on Thursday.     KEMRI makes a breakthrough in the fight against Covid-19 by developing a Virus Transport Media (VTM)  Nyanza clergy speak on Covid-19 guidelines imposed on the 13 counties  Janga la Covid-19: Wanafunzi nusu milioni hawakurejea shuleni baada ya likizo ndefu ya miezi tisa  800m specialist, Collins Kipruto, eyes Tokyo ticket in the National Trials set for June 17th-19th  HEALTH WATCH: Experts on the looming 4th wave & the burden of Covid-19 in some parts of the country By Ben Ahenda | 4 hours ago By The Standard Sports | 4 hours ago By Editorial | 5 hours ago By Jonathan Komen | 5 hours ago