A 53-year-old man has been charged with defilement before a magistrate's court in Kisumu.  Joel Etale, a caretaker in Manyatta estate, is accused of defiling two Grade Two pupils.  Other than the two counts of defilement, Etale who appeared before Senior Resident Magistrate Joseline Mitei on Thursday, faced two other counts of committing an indecent act with minors.  The minors are both aged nine.  Police arrest man in Murang’a after wife claims he forced her to undergo FGM  Bill Cosby to walk free after court overturns sexual assault conviction  Caretaker detained in Kisumu for defiling four pupils  Woman allegedly raped on three separate occasions by brother-in-law The suspect denied the charges and was released on a Sh200, 000 bond.  The court heard the suspect committed the crimes on diverse dates in June.   The minors told the police Etale enticed them with money and lured them into his house before defiling them.  The children claimed the suspect would force them to sleep with him in his bed and threaten them with dire consequences if they told anyone about it.  The man would make the girls bathe as he watched before attacking them, reports by the police indicated.  It all started after Etale reportedly asked the children to wash his utensils.   "He would give us between Sh20 and Sh100 to buy chips and ask us not to tell anyone. He would ask us to go to his house after school and defiled us," said one of the girls.  The girls never mentioned anything to their parents after they were threatened. The crime was only discovered after one of their teachers realised they always came to school with money. The curious teacher sought to know where they were getting the money from and that is when the confided in the teacher. The matter was later reported to the police and investigations launched before the suspect was arrested.  The minors are among the witnesses the prosecution has lined up to testify against the suspect.  The case will be mentioned on July 15.  hodhiambo@standardmedia.co.ke     Hearing of case of survivors of 2007/8 PEV against government postponed to 14th of April 2016  Hundreds of women and girls raped during 2007- 2008 post-election violence in Kenya, report shows  KTN News Desk,15th February 2016 Human Rights report on the numerous number of women and girls raped By Kevine Omollo  | 2 days ago By Robert Amalemba | 2 days ago By Harold Odhiambo | 2 days ago By Erick Abuga | 3 days ago