The national polls agency has denied its database was hacked.  A statement from the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission said no hacker acquired personal details of registered voters from a county in western Kenya.  “The commission would like to clarify that this information is not factual. The commission's register of voters is kept in a biometric voter registration system which is hosted on several servers,” the statement signed by chairman Wafula Chebukati said.  He said what is currently being reported in the media is not data obtained through hacking of the BVR system but possibly from entities that may have legitimately obtained from the commission through a formal request and upon payment of requisite fees.  Twenty-one year old fraud suspect who hacked IEBC server arrested in Juja  IEBC chairperson should have the final word, says Koki Muli  LIVE BLOG: Jubilee leading in Muguga as tallying continues  Ex-agency boss defends decision on CORD demos Chebukati added that the system has been designed to ensure integrity and confidentiality.  “Since installation and commissioning of the system eight years ago, the BVR system that hosts the register of voters used during elections has never been hacked because the service is not connected to the open internet.”  In addition, the rest of the commissions and higher internal network are behind a high-security firewall system.  Chebukati said in accordance with the access to information as provided for by the constitution, the commission services numerous requests by various entities requiring a register of voters for specific electoral areas.  “These requests are serviced upon payment of certain fees and in accordance with privacy laws requiring personally identifiable information to be kept confidential.”   IEBC launches 2020-2024 Strategic Plan ahead of the 2022 general elections  Uteuzi wa kidato cha kwanza, IEBC imezindua ruwaza na mikakati ya miaka mitano ijayo | MBIU YA KTN  Chaguzi Ndogo: IEBC inaendelea kumalizia maandalizi ya chaguzi ndogo Bonchari na Juja By Mate Tongola | 4 hours ago By Robert Abong'o | 6 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 17 hours ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 20 hours ago