Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed has warned federations and associations against the indecent treatment of women in sports.  In a statement, the CS cited basketball saying investigations will be completed soon.  "I am delighted that 2020 Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic teams have a good number of women. Kenya has surpassed the IOC guidelines and affirmative considerations by presenting an equal number of men to women athletes. "In fact, Kenya has entered more women Olympians compared to other countries. As a nation, we must take cognizance of the barriers that exist in various facets of our society hindering women and girls from their full potential," said Mohamed.  She issued stringent measures to curb women mistreatment.  AFC Leopards edge Bandari to keep title hopes alive  Talanta seek to consolidate top spot as Police host Stima  Tusker complete double over K'Ogalo to move four points clear  Nzoia Sugar sink Bidco to boost survival hopes  Will Shujaa’s experienced side finally come of age at Olympic Games? "NO women Teams will leave the country for any competition or participate in internal competitions without being accompanied by at least two (2) women officials, a doctor and a team welfare officer.  "All sports organisations or federations registered with the Ministry shall ensure women are represented in management and that the constitutional threshold of two-thirds gender representation is upheld," she said.  Amina also appointed a nine-member gender welfare committee.  They are four-time Boston Marathon winner Catherine Ndereba (chairperson), Rose Wasike (committee administrator), Kizzie Shako (secretary), Hobo Hussein (joint secretary), Paul Ochieng, Catherine Mabwi, Ibrahim Hussein, Linda Ndiwa añd Ted Kwaka.      Kidnappers Manhunt: Police probing kidnapping of 23-year-old Hafsa Mohamed rescued in Kayole  23-year-old woman, Hafsa Mohamed, who went missing in Eastleigh has been rescued by police in Kayole  Hatma ya Gavana wa Wajir Mohamed Mahmud sasa ipo kwenye bunge la seneti  Bunge la kaunti ya Wajir limewasilisha mashtaka yanayomkabili Gavana Mohamed Abdi Mohamud  Wajir MCAs to push for their case for the removal of Governor Mohamed Abdi Mohamud, by impeachment By Jonathan Komen | 4 hours ago By Washington Onyango | 4 hours ago By Waweru Titus | 4 hours ago By Washington Onyango | 5 hours ago