Sharon was 28 weeks into her pregnancy when she was brutally murdered. [File, Standard]  Sharon Otieno’s unborn baby died from a sharp abdominal trauma caused by a stab wound inflicted on his mother’s left upper part of the uterus, Dr Johansen Oduor, a pathologist told the court.  Oduor, an autopsy expert, disclosed the cause of the 26-year-old's death was severe haemorrhage due to penetrating force trauma and also manual strangulation.  “Her body was pale indicating a significant loss of blood,” Dr Oduor explained to the court.  The hearing of the case involving the murder of the expectant Rongo University student was moved forward a week ago, after the defendants sought to have the case postponed, citing Covid-19 restrictions.  Editorial: Grave matter  Peter Ndwiga: Street-smart man who triumphed over academic challenges  Ivy Wangeci’s murder: Mother testifies as trial starts after five failed attempts  Caroline Kangogo eludes DCI search teams   On Monday, July 12 the hearing of the case started with Oduor as the first witness to testify before the Milimani Law Courts in Nairobi.  According to the first prosecution witness, the foetus, approximately seven months, sustained a stab wound that came from the flank (the side of a person's body between the ribs and the hip) and exited through the upper part of the umbilical cord.  “The entry point of the wound measured 30mm by 15mm and the exit was 30mm by 20mm. The intestines were hanging out from the flank wound, other organs were normal,” Johansen Oduor testified.  Oduor who conducted the autopsy on the two bodies on September 8, 2018, also told the court that Sharon had sustained at least seven stab wounds and two slash wounds on different parts of her body.  A copy of the post-mortem document produced in court as evidence showed the deceased had stab wounds on the left lower abdomen, mid-back, right lower back, left lower back, at the midline and the lower mid-back.  The body also had two parallel slash wounds on the left ear.  “The aumentum comprising of the fatty tissues and intestines were hanging out of the left lower abdomen wound which had a 160mm by 30mm dimensions,” Oduor told the court.  Dr Oduor described the body to the court as "flaccid, with skin peeling off the body on the back of the arms and legs, it was discoloured, with a height of 175cm and was healthy,”  Sharon’s body was presented for autopsy unclothed. However, the sleuths presented a blood-stained white Adidas-branded jumper suit, a white brassier, white underwear and blue sandals.  Sharon’s body was found dumped in Kodera Forest in Homa Bay County, a day after she went missing.  Her body was preserved at the Oyugis Level Four Hospital in Oyugis Town, where the autopsy to ascertain her death was conducted by three pathologists in the presence of investigators.  The late Sharon and Nation reporter Barack Odour were kidnapped in Homa Bay town while meeting a story source who is identified as Migori Governor Okoth Obado’s personal assistant Michael Oyamo.    Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death  The widow of Jacob Juma has accused police of dragging their feet in the hunt for Juma’s killers By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 1 hour ago By Amos Kareithi | 1 hour ago By Philip Muasya | 1 hour ago By Jael Mboga | 11 hours ago