The National Olympics Committee of Kenya (NOCK) has warned corporates in the country against the use and exploitation of all Olympic properties under its custody.  In an advisory seen by the Standard, NOCK said corporates intending to use these properties must be cleared and licensed by them.  “No corporate entity, unless otherwise authorized and recognized as a Partner of Team Kenya, has the right to use or publish them for purposes of direct or inferred marketing campaigns,” The properties include the Olympic Anthem, flag, motto, flame and torches, designations, words “Olympics”, “Tokyo 2020”, “Team Kenya” and all other items to referring to the competing teams, and the names, images and likeness of Team Kenya sports.    Kenya's Eunice Sum promises to bow out with honours in Tokyo  Hit or miss? Choice of Olympics kit has Kenyans divided  Kenya's Yego reconciles with athletics chiefs ahead of Tokyo Olympics  Team Kenya receives Tokyo Olympics kit  Olympics: President Uhuru presents Team Kenya with official travel kit NOCK argued congratulatory messages on social media trying to infer an association with the Games or the team are not generic and only “a preserve of authorized Partners”.  The committee has also warned celebrities and influencers against associating their funded posts with the Olympics.  The hashtags #TeamKenya #Tokyo2020 #Olympics, including spinoffs created from the Olympics properties, are only the preserve of the Commitee, its partners and the general public.  NOCK said the other exception to the use of #TeamKenya hashtag will be for editorial purposes by media houses licensed by the Communications Authority of Kenya.  International Olympics Committee partners who are not Team Kenya sponsors have also been warned to keep off the Team Kenya promotion. ?   RACING TO DEATH: Spiraling cases of athletes knocked down by motorists raises concern about safety By Reuters | 35 minutes ago By Reuters | 2 hours ago By Reuters | 3 hours ago By Reuters | 5 hours ago