With Justice Lydiah Achode proposing to have changes in the law to accommodate electronic Wills, the big hurdle is how men and women will write, witness, sign and secure the crucial succession document.  The judge noted that countries like Australia, USA and UK have gone ahead to change their laws to accommodate electronic Wills due to the rise of technology and Covid-19 pandemic.  “Although not formally recognised in many jurisdictions including Kenya, electronic Wills and the use of technology as a medium of documenting evidence is on the rise. As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, they are more relevant than ever,” the judge said.  The Society of Will Writers, based in the UK, says first, the law should recognise electronic signatures and set which mode will be the most secure for signing the e-will.    DP Ruto triggers a storm with 'bottom-up' plan  Scramble begins as Mount Kenya vote up for grabs in State House race   County stadium finally renamed after Ntimama  Court rejects Big Kev’s video will but says it's time to adopt e-wills “In terms of security, the e-signature must be more than the testator’s name simply typed. This is too susceptible to fraud as any electronically typed name looks the same no matter who types it. Similar problems apply to digital images of written signatures,” it argues.  Cyber security  Justice Achode was of the view that the issues to be addressed include cyber security, obligations to assess capacity, understanding, undue influence and duress.  Big Kev’s video Will was recorded on a mobile phone while another was on an iPad.  The American Bar Association (ABA) argues that the concept of signing and witnessing estate-planning documents electronically, for many, remains absurd.  It argues that technology providers should have a software for e-signatures. According to the lobby, for persons to witness the e-wills, there should also be a video conferencing software, which is secure.  The other issue is confidentiality. According to ABA, if lawyers are using a shared computer, he or she should clear his browser history after the interview.  The association also says a practitioner should not show confidential information through a computer or electronic device sued to store a Will.  It adds that there should be a policy about who can be designated as a qualified custodian of the electronic Will.   Wabunge 3 Tana River washinikiza wananchi kumuunga mkono Naibu Rais William Ruto | MBIU YA KTN (2)  WAKO WAPI? Leo ni zamu ya bwana Awillo Mike, anayeongoza kundi la Jamnazi Afrika  Ruto asema katiba si lazima wakati huu, Kenya inahitaji kuboresha uchumi kuliko jambo lingine lolote By Moses Nyamori | 38 minutes ago By Brian Okoth | 45 minutes ago By Mireri Junior | 1 hour ago By Kamau Muthoni | 3 hours ago