The president urged leaders to resolve issues amicably while issuing over 2100 title deeds in Rabai, Kilifi County. [File, Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta has urged those opposing him to embrace amicable methods of conflict resolution.  Speaking at Kasida Primary School in Rabai, Kilifi County on Thursday, July 22, the President said negotiation was one of the most effective methods of resolving disputes.  Kenyatta, who was issuing title deeds to residents, said rarely does a shouting match result in a meaningful outcome.  “Today, we are issuing title deeds to the residents of Rabai because the local leaders sat down with me and presented their grievances,” he said.  Uhuru Kenyatta: Kenya will not cede an inch of its soil to anyone  Tuju: Jubilee losing Kiambaa by-election was no big deal  Can One Kenya Alliance turn tables, beat front runners in 2022 poll?  Western leaders bicker over unity as aspirants hit campaign trail “So far, my government has issued at least 3,000 title deeds to Kilifi County residents. You’d be expecting too much if you insult me on the podium, and still want me to attend to your concerns. Let’s convene where elders meet and collectively look for solutions to our problems,” said the Head of State.  Kenyatta said the benefits Coastal people are reaping today are the consequence of a cordial relationship they have built with the National Government.  “Insulting me won’t help you or the people,” he said.  The President said by putting differences aside, especially political ones, his government has managed to deliver on several development pledges.  “When we sit at the negotiating table, your political party is inconsequential; it doesn’t matter whether you’re from Jubilee or ODM,” he said.  The Head of State urged Kenyans to shun divisive politics that is anchored on tribalism, gender or religious differences.  “Elections will come and go, but we, the people, remain. Let us embrace co-existence.”  His remarks come on the back of increased criticism by breakaway leaders in Jubilee, who have formed the United Democratic Alliance (UDA). The decamping group has accused the President of the selective roll-out of development, with areas said to be affiliated to Deputy President William Ruto-linked party, UDA, allegedly marginalised.  Kenyatta issued at least 2,100 title deeds to Rabai residents on Thursday, promising to return in September to distribute more.   HOUSE OF CARDS: Is the State secretly engineering plot to have a compromise candidate succeed Uhuru?  Impeaching Matiang'i: Guns trained at CS Fred Matiang'i with leaders divided over impeachment plans  President Suluhu will on Tuesday begin a two-day State visit on the invitation of President Kenyatta By Winfrey Owino | 7 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 9 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 12 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 12 hours ago