A man was on Friday handed a life sentence by a Milimani court after he was found guilty of sodomising his six-year-old daughter.  The convict was confirmed to have committed the offence on May 26, 2019, in Silanga, Kibra Constituency, Nairobi County.  While reading the ruling, the magistrate described the convict’s action as beastly and imposed a life sentence, adding that it was the only sentence prescribed by the law in the event of such offence.  The accused’s lawyer George Ayuo had asked the court to grant him a lenient sentence to enable him to rehabilitate and get back to society as he was a first-time offender.  71-year-old man gets life sentence for defiling teenage daughter  Police net farmhand suspected to have killed 9-year-old girl  Man, 71, convicted for defiling, impregnating 15-year-old daughter  53-year-old caretaker charged with defiling two minors in Kisumu Ayuo also said the accused was the sole provider of his family, has a housewife who only delivered a young baby on July 24 this year.  He was also according to the lawyer the provider of his other siblings and paying school fees for his sister-in-law who he's also servicing her loan of Sh80,000.  The magistrate, however, said despite being a first-time offender, as a father he should be his daughter’s number one protector and not an assailant.  “The action of the accused must be punished to deter would-be offenders, the law prescribes only one sentence which I impose, the accused shall serve life imprisonment,” she ruled.  She also said the ruling will serve as a deterrent for other would-be offenders.  The accused has 14 days to appeal the ruling.  The offence of defilement is contrary to section 8 (1) (2) of the sexual of offence act number 3 of 2006.      Unyama: Mwanamume mwenye umri wa miaka 42 ambaka bintiye Murang’a  Ajuza mmoja alazimika kulala katika kituo cha polisi kwa madai ya kutolipa kodi  Mwanafunzi atoweka baada ya kupachikwa miimba na mwalimu By Josphat Thiongó | 3 days ago By Brian Obuya | 3 days ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 3 days ago By Winfrey Owino | 6 days ago