Family spokesman Robert Kipkorir. Caroline Kangogo (inset) was found dead in a bathroom at her parents’ home. [Peter Ochieng, Standard]  A postmortem examination of police woman Caroline Kangogo is scheduled for later this week.  Until yesterday afternoon, the story of the tragic end of the police woman who grabbed headlines since July 5 after she was linked to the shooting of two men was still shrouded in mystery.  Kangogo’s lifeless body was found in a bathroom at her parents’ home in Elgeyo Marakwet more than a week after her colleague John Ogweno was found shot in his car at Kasarani police lines, Nakuru. Days later, businessman Peter Ndwiga was also found shot dead at a lodging in Juja town. Both deaths were linked to Kangogo.     Kangogo kin plan burial but autopsy not done yet  Exclusive: The children are safe, but devastated – Kangogo’s husband  Caroline Kangogo's death elicits more questions than answers  Caroline Kangogo apologises for killing colleague in detailed 'suicide note' What was clear by yesterday was Kangogo’s burial date, which is scheduled for Saturday at her parents’ farm in Anin, Keiyo North Sub-county.  Security officials in Elgeyo Marakwet were yesterday guarded on when Kangogo’s autopsy would be conducted, only saying the death was now under active investigation by homicide detectives. Elgeyo Marakwet County commander Patrick Lumumba could not confirm whether homicide detectives from DCI headquarters in Nairobi had been deployed to the home to demystify theories that came out during preliminary investigations last Friday.  Unconfirmed reports had indicated on Sunday that the team of detectives had been deployed to piece together evidence that would give clues on whether the police corporal committed suicide or was killed.  A family source who requested anonymity said a postmortem is set to be conducted tomorrow at the Iten County Referral Hospital, where the body has been lying since Friday.  Caroline Kangogo's body was found in a bathroom at her parents’ home in Elgeyo Marakwet. [Courtesy]  But Kangogo’s father Barnaba Kibor said they were yet to decide when the postmortem will be conducted.  “I wish not to discuss this matter further. We are now focused on burial preparations,” Kibor said in a brief response.  Kibor, a retired police officer, maintained his third-born daughter shot herself. According to a relative, the police officer arrived at her parents’ home at around 10pm on Thursday on a boda boda before her body was later found by a relative in the bathroom.  “We have established that a boda boda rider picked her up at a popular restaurant in Iten town and dropped her near her parents’ homestead. We believe that Caroline then headed straight to the bathroom, where she was found dead,” the relative said.    By Hudson Gumbihi | 6 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 6 hours ago By Titus Too | 6 hours ago By James Wanzala | 6 hours ago