Wycliffe Omwenga, brother to slain businessman Kevin Omwenga was found dead on Wednesday, July 21, in his Riruta home. [Courtesy]  Wycliffe Omwenga, a brother of businessman Kevin Omwenga, who was murdered last year, and a key witness in the case, is dead.  Police say Wycliffe was found dead on Wednesday, July 21, in his Riruta home, Nairobi, but are yet to establish when and how he met his death.  “We have not established the nature of his death and who was involved, or whether it is linked to his brother’s ongoing murder case,” officer Stephen Tanki said.  Tanki, who is in charge of Kilimani DCI, told journalists they had not established the motive of the killing.  Dutch tycoon Rouwenhourst murder suspects arrested  Police hunt for boy, 16, accused of killing 42-year-old man  How Christine Ambani died painfully, postmortem shows  Arrest killers of women and children, Raila tells police “We can only establish the cause of death after we get an expert’s report. An autopsy has been scheduled for Tuesday, July 27,” Tanki said.  “We are traumatised. It is shocking because we are still mourning the death of Kevin,” Kennedy Ongwae, an uncle of the two slain brothers said.  Wycliffe was yet to testify in his brother’s (Kevin Omwenga) ongoing murder case before he died.  Kevin Omwenga, 28, was allegedly shot once in the chest after an argument ensued between him and the key suspect in his murder at Galana Suites along Galana Road a year ago, witnesses said.  Kevin’s brother, Wycliffe Omwenga, now deceased was present when the 28-year-old succumbed to gunshot injuries.  Police had arrested two suspects in connection with Kevin Omwenga’s death: Robert Bodo Ouko (the person they say fatally shot Omwenga) and Chris Obure (the alleged owner of the gun used in Omwenga’s killing).  Justice Jessie Lessit prohibited Obure and Bodo from handling firearms until the case is determined after releasing them on Sh2 million and Sh500 000 respectively.  An autopsy conducted established that Kevin died of a bullet wound that went through the heart and the left lung.  {Additional Reporting by Brian Obuya}   Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death  The widow of Jacob Juma has accused police of dragging their feet in the hunt for Juma’s killers By Pkemoi Ng’enoh | 2 days ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 3 days ago By Patrick Vidija | 3 days ago By Brian Okoth and Brian Obuya | 4 days ago