Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has expressed optimism that the Court of Appeal judges will overturn the decision of the High Court and allow them to continue with the push to amend the constitution.  Speaking in Mogotio, Baringo County where he addressed residents, the Kanu national chairman urged Kenyans to pray that the seven appellate judges rule in favour of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) supporters.  He said the proposed amendments were good for the country and even the people of Mogotio, who would benefit greatly from the changes.  “We hope the Court of Appeal judges will bring back reggae and Mogotio will not be scrapped. Pray that BBI comes back,” Gideon said. BBI proponents lodged an appeal after a five-judge bench at the High Court ruled that BBI was unconstitutional, null and void.  The senator is among leaders who spearheaded the campaign to popularise the initiative to amend the constitution.  EACC, police to Khaminwa: ‘It was not us’  I'm ready to show you political direction, Gideon tells Baringo  Whatever the verdict, it's headache for BBI backers  Raila embarks on life beyond reggae strategy as polls beckon Earlier, the senator had attended a church service at Mogotio Catholic Church where he called on faithful to pray for the nation and its leaders.  Gideon said his political plan of uniting with leaders from other regions was meant to benefit them and ensure that they realise development. The senator held a closed-door meeting with a section of leaders from Baringo County at his Mogotio home.  Among those who attended the meeting were Members of County Assembly and two MPs. The leaders criticised Deputy President William Ruto, accusing him of “trading with their votes”, adding he was not interested in helping the people.  Tiaty MP William Kamket and Baringo Woman Representative Gladwell Cheruiyot were also present. They claimed over the years DP Ruto has been riding on the people for personal gains.  They noted that the Kalenjin community still lagged behind despite him being in government. Kabarnet Ward MCA Ernest Kibet said while Ruto was headed to the opposition, Gideon would be part of the next government.  Kibet noted that in 2013, Ruto had his own party, the United Republican Party (URP), which he used to benefit himself.  Kibet added that the United Democratic Alliance and the hustler narrative were being used by Ruto to have his way to the top seat.  “Every opportunity in power is an opportunity to assist your people. I am aware that has not been the case with the deputy president. He does not have the interest of the people at heart. He will soon sell UDA and leave the so-called hustlers reeling in poverty,” he said.  The MCA said the only person who has the will and was focused on assisting the people was Senator Gideon, adding that they will support him in his presidential bid. He said Ruto was not a person to be entrusted with power.  Tirioki Ward MCA Sam Lokales warned his counterparts in Baringo and those allied to the deputy president to refrain from attacking Gideon.  The senator, he said, was not in the same league as the MCAs, adding he was a figure to watch.  Lokales said the route Gideon had taken was meant to unite Kenyans.  Kanu nominated MCA Betty Birchugo on her part said those making noise and attacking Senator Gideon were only after handouts. She, however, stressed that they would not distract him in whatever way.  “We are sure those making noise are after handouts. Kenyans read the signs,” she said.    jchepkwony@standardmedia.co.ke        Governor Charity Ngilu on BBI, 2022 Coalitions & State of the Nation | NEWSLINE WITH BEN KITILI  NCCK yadai BBI si jambo la lazima, Usajili katika vyama, Mzozo wa SRC | MBIU WIKENDI (Sehemu ya 2)  BBI Dilemma: Leaders caught off-guard by the nullification of BBI as it affects building coalitions By Olivia Odhiambo | 7 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi and Micah Sali | 20 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 1 day ago By Winfrey Owino | 1 day ago