Baringo Senator Gideon Moi wants the government to ensure prompt payments for youth engaged in Kazi Mtaani initiative and broaden the scope beyond casual labour. The Kanu boss also wants the government to tackle claims of corruption in the programme launched last year by President Uhuru Kenyatta.  In the Senate yesterday, Gideon told the Standing Committee on Roads and Transport to seek answers regarding the future of the programme that targets unemployed youth from informal settlements across the country.  “The State should comprehensively address the constant delay in payment of wages to the youth involved in the Kazi Mtaani initiative,” said Gideon.    He further sought explanation on whether there were mechanisms to ensure the initiative is transformed into a substantial social protection programme. He said this will ensure youth get the skills for future job opportunities.  Ford Kenya, Wiper, ANC rule out reunion with ODM  Rhino Charge raises Sh140m  Curtains fall on Rhino Charge, Sh140 million raised  Rhino Charge: Gideon flags off 32nd off-road motorsport targeting to raise Sh100m conservation funds “Spell out measures put in place to ensure that corruption allegations that have marred the programme are addressed so that it is run in a transparent manner,” he added.  President Kenyatta launched the initiative in April last year to cushion jobless youth in the informal settlements, who were worst hit by the Covid-19 pandemic.  The initiative started with a budget of Sh10 billion and employed about 280,000 youth from all counties.  They rehabilitate public facilities, collect garbage, clean streets as well build access roads.  The initiative has suffered constant delays in payments due to late disbursement by Treasury.  In February, Treasury allocated an additional Sh7 billion to pay some pending wages.   Seneta Gideon Moi asema wamekuwa wakipokea taarifa za uharibifu wa vifaa vya mawasiliano aina hii  Senator Gideon Moi joined a section of Muslim leaders for the Iftar a fast-breaking meal  KANU leaders hint that they will seek presidency in the 2017 general elections By Collins Kweyu | 1 hour ago By PSCU | 2 hours ago By Saul Owiti | 2 hours ago By Patrick Wanjohi | 2 hours ago