Emergency warning triangle. [Courtesy]  One police officer was killed and another seriously injured after they were hit by trucks near Naivasha town.  In the first incident, an officer on patrol was hit and killed Wednesday evening by a truck ferrying sand along the Mai Mahiu-Narok road.  Also killed was a driver of a personal car that the officer was inspecting at a roadblock near Suswa police post, just 15 kilometres from Mai Mahiu town.  Area police commander Samuel Waweru said that the driver of the truck, headed to Narok, escaped with minor injuries.  Nyandarua traffic police officer, 12 others involved in road accident  Naivasha hopes to save more lives with improved hospital  Raila tells the Maasai to be wary of leaders who are not genuine  Woman crushed to death by truck, baby strapped on her back survives “The speeding truck rammed into the rear of the personal car before hitting the policeman,” Waweru said.  He said the wrecks were towed to Suswa police post while the bodies were taken to a local mortuary.  Ambulance. [Courtesy]  In the second incident, a traffic police officer was injured after he was hit by another truck along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway.  The officer had stopped the matatu when the truck, headed to Naivasha, hit the matatu and the officer at Matches trading centre in Kinangop.  Six passengers in the matatu were injured.  Simon Mwathi, a witness, blamed the incident on foggy weather, noting that it had adversely affected visibility.  Mwathi said the driver of the truck swerved to avoid hitting the officer but ended up colliding with the matatu.  “The officer was rushed to Kijabe Mission Hospital,” he said.  A senior officer from Magumu police station said the driver of the truck was arrested and will be charged in court.    Kirinyaga & Narok listed as counties with most opaque budgets after scoring zero points in survey  Hofu ya kuzuka kwa maradhi ya Kipindupindu imetanda katika shule ya upili ya wavulana ya Narok   Tapeli apewa kichapo cha umbwa na wananchi Narok By Lynn Kolongei | 3 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 19 hours ago By Benard Lusigi | 1 day ago By Stephen Rutto | 1 day ago