A police van carrying a suspect arrested making guns at his home in Rachuonyo East, Homa Bay County. [James Omoro, Standard]  A 32-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly making guns at his home in Homa Bay County.  The man was apprehended at Ogenga village, Kasewe B Sub Location in Rachuonyo East Sub County.  The arrest came after Senior Assistant Chief of Kasewe B Sub Location Hezbon Asero received a tip-off from the public that the young man was making guns at his home.  Caroline Kangogo apologises for killing colleague in detailed 'suicide note'  Conservationist Joannah Stuchburry shot dead  Fugitive cop Caroline Kangogo found dead at her parents’ home  Omar Lali sobs uncontrollably during Tecra Muigai’s death inquest Asero informed police with whom they raided the suspect's home and found him with three homemade guns.  The guns included two pistols and another one resembling a G3-rifle.  The man was also found with three live rounds of ammunition.  Asero said it seemed the man has been making the illegal guns believed to be used for committing crimes.  "The information I got is that the man has been making the guns in his home. What we have discovered is that he is dangerous because he perpetrates insecurity in society," said Asero.  The suspect was first taken to Center Sori Police post before being transferred to Oyugis Police Station in the neighbouring Rachuonyo South Sub-County for interrogation by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations officers.  Rachuonyo East Police Commander Justus Kucha said their preliminary investigations revealed that the suspect has been assembling the guns at his home and selling them to unknown gangsters.  "We are still investigating the matter to enable us to get more suspects involved in the use of the illegal guns," Kucha said.  The police boss said the suspect will be arraigned upon completion of their investigations.   He told residents to avoid illegal businesses.   Police in Kisumu arrests one suspect in ongoing security operation  Fear grips residents of Khwisero, Kakamega following a spate of bizarre killings  CS Nkaisserry: Joho must surrender firearms By James Omoro | 1 hour ago By Winfrey Owino | 4 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 9 hours ago By James Omoro | 14 hours ago