Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed has lost her husband, Khalid Hossain Ahmed.  He was buried at the family’s home in Lukenya, Machakos County. According to family members, Ahmed died yesterday morning at Nairobi Hospital after a short illness.  The ambulance carrying his body arrived at Masjid Noor in South C at about 12.30pm where special prayers followed.  At 1.30pm, the convoy which included CS Amina, close family members, Ministry of Sports and Foreign Affairs officials, and some mourners travelled to Machakos. Members of the public were kept at bay as the family wanted privacy.  President Uhuru Kenyatta led other leaders in condoling with the family and mourning Ahmed, who was a businessman and always maintained a low profile.  Sports CS Amina Mohamed’s husband dies  CS: World Athletics U20 championships will be spectator-free  Sports CS Amina appoints nine-member gender welfare committee  CS Amina warns against mistreatment of women in sports   The president described Ahmed as a gentleman and a strong family pillar.  “I have received the disheartening news of the passing away of Mr Khalid Ahmed with great sadness. Mr Ahmed was a great person, a gentleman and a strong pillar of his family. My deepest condolences to my colleague and friend Cabinet Secretary Amina, the children and the extended family as they come to terms with the sudden passing away of Mr Ahmed,” said Kenyatta.  Deputy President William Ruto also condoled with the family, describing Ahmed as a gifted businessman. “We are saddened by the loss of Khalid Ahmed, the dear husband to Sports Cabinet Secretary @AMB_A_Mohammed. He was a gifted businessman who was devoted to uplifting the lives of people through social responsibility initiatives,” posted Dr Ruto on his Twitter handle.  Orange Democratic Party leader Raila Odinga and also sent his condolences to CS Mohamed.  “Dear CS  @AMB_A_Mohammed, kindly accept deepest condolences from Mama Ida and I following the passing of your dear husband Khalid Ahmed. May God the Almighty grant you and your family fortitude to bear the loss.”  Baringo Senator and Kanu chairman Gideon Moi said: “I extend my sympathies to the family of CS @AMB_A_Mohammed following the death of her husband, Khalid Ahmed. Our longstanding relationship with the family of CS Amina saw us sharing in his compassion and humility. May God grant the family the grace to endure this difficult time.”  Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka described the late as a dear friend and suave entrepreneur.  “I wish to express my deepest condolences to the family and friends of the late Khalid Ahmed. A dear friend and the husband to Sports CS @AMB_A_Mohammed, I will remember him as a suave entrepreneur par excellence.  Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi wrote: “I take this opportunity to condole with my sister, CS Amina Mohammed, following the unfortunate demise of her husband, Mr Khalid Ahmed. The late was a loving family man and a renown businessman. Our prayers shall be with your family during these trying moments. May his soul RIP.”  Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala mourned Ahmed as a generous man.  “It is with great sadness that I have learnt of the passing on of Khalid Ahmed... Khalid was a great man, generous to a fault and a pillar of strength to his family,” tweeted Balala.  A number of government officials and politicians were present at the mosque, including Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula, Maendeleo Ya Wanawake Organisation National Chairperson Rahab Muiu, and former Nairobi Town Clerk Philip Kisia.   The government to make public details of Uganda agreement  Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria files motion to summon CS Amb. Amina Mohamed  Moses Kuria files motion to summon Amina Mohamed for failure to implement parliament’s decisions By Roselyne Obala | 34 minutes ago By James Wanzala | 3 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 12 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 12 hours ago