DP Ruto said the president was elected to serve all Kenyans, not a few individuals with greedy interests. [File, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto has criticised NASA coalition co-principals, asking them to stop disturbing the Head of State (President Uhuru Kenyatta) and unite themselves.  Ruto warned the opposing camp that if they continue disagreeing with no plan, then his team was ready to occupy the house on the hill in the next 12 months.  The DP’s sentiments come in the wake of NASA principals being embroiled in a public spat, making accusations against each other.  In a church service at Huruma, Nairobi, Ruto said the president was elected to develop the country equally and not to save less than ten people’s interests.  Kiambaa poll new litmus test for Uhuru, Ruto ahead of 2022 polls  Treasury releases Sh519 million to Jubilee and ODM  Police cancel UDA, Jubilee campaigns  Uhuru, Ruto to lock horns in key by-elections “They are all greedy and fighting for their own benefits. Some are talking of bullets as others are crying over money. The president was elected to serve all Kenyans, not five, six people,” Ruto said.   “They started by bothering him with constitutional amendments but when it hit a dead end, now they want him to arrange them for elections,” the country’s second in command went on.  The holder of the second most powerful office suggested the country was stuck as a result of the few men (NASA co-principals).  “Stop wasting the president’s time, let him work for Kenyans. Plan yourself. We didn’t elect him to plan and unite you,” Ruto remarked.  The DP expressed his confidence in how he will win the elections if NASA relations remains unstable.  He also defended why he attends church with donations, saying he wouldn’t have been where he is were it not for God.  “Why do you have a problem when we go to church? Some of us have no godfathers apart from God,” he added.  ODM leader Raila Odinga is on record, without mentioning names, accusing politicians who make donations in church. According to him, donations made in the church are proceeds of corruption.  Ruto’s remarks were inspired by the recent fallout in NASA, that saw Kalonzo blame co-principals for not sharing funds equally adding he will not support Odinga a third time.  The spat has seen NASA principals scramble for the president’s attention, in what political experts term as ‘seeking endorsements’.  However, in a recent interview with Citizen TV, Odinga hinted at a possible super alliance, similar to the NARC in 2002 that saw Kibaki become president, putting an end to the 24-year KANU regime.   Governor Charity Ngilu urges Kalonzo and Raila to mend fences and work together ahead of 2022 polls  HOUSE OF CARDS: Is the State secretly engineering plot to have a compromise candidate succeed Uhuru?  Coalition Jitters: DP Ruto faults Jubilee and ODM coalition, says hustlers will back UDA By Robert Kiplagat  | 29 minutes ago By Jacob Ng'etich | 29 minutes ago By Boniface Gikandi and Moses Nyamori | 29 minutes ago By George Njunge | 8 hours ago