About 170 people have died, scores missing in the devastating Germany floods. [Courtesy]  The death toll in western Germany and Belgium flooding rose to at least 170 on Saturday, after burst river banks and flash floods collapsed houses and ripped up roads and power lines.  Some 143 people died in the flooding, in Germany's worst natural disaster in more than half a century. That included about 98 in the Ahrweiler district south of Cologne, according to police.  As of Saturday, July 18, hundreds of people were still missing or unreachable, as several areas were inaccessible due to high water levels.  Residents and business owners struggled to pick up the pieces in battered towns.  German men's Olympic football team walk off in friendly after alleged racist abuse  EU court says headscarves can be banned at work  More than 20 die in floods in western Europe, dozens missing  Germany relaxes restrictions for travelers from UK and other countries "Everything is destroyed. You don't recognise the scenery," said Michael Lang, owner of a wine shop in the town of Bad Neuenahr-Ahrweiler in Ahrweiler, fighting back tears.  German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier visited Erftstadt in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, where the disaster killed at least 45 people.  "We mourn with those that have lost friends, acquaintances, family members," he said. "Their fate is ripping our hearts apart."  Around 700 residents were evacuated late on Friday after a dam broke in the town of Wassenberg near Cologne, authorities said.  But Wassenberg mayor Marcel Maurer said water levels had been stabilising since the night. "It's too early to give the all-clear but we are cautiously optimistic," he said.  Chancellor Angela Merkel was expected to travel on Sunday to Rhineland Palatinate, the state that is home to the devastated village of Schuld.  According to the national crisis centre in Belgium, the death toll rose to 27, which is coordinating the relief operation there.  It added that 103 people were "missing or unreachable". Some were likely unreachable because they could not recharge mobile phones or were in the hospital without identity papers, the centre said.  Over the past several days the floods, which have mostly hit the German states of Rhineland Palatinate and North Rhine-Westphalia and eastern Belgium, have cut off entire communities from power and communications.  In the southern Belgian provinces of Luxembourg and Namur, authorities rushed to supply drinking water to households.  Flood water levels slowly fell in the worst-hit parts of Belgium, allowing residents to sort through damaged possessions. Prime Minister Alexander De Croo and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen visited some areas on Saturday afternoon.   Nakumatt Ukay suspends operations following heavy flooding  Tawi la Nakumatt Ukay lafungwa kufuatia hasara ya mafuriko  Tragedy as a building collapses in Huruma, Nairobi killing 7 people By Reuters | 2 days ago By Reuters | 4 days ago By Reuters | 8 days ago By Reuters | 13 days ago