A section of anti-Mathira Mp Rigathi Gachagua demonstrates in Karatina Town in support of his arrest.[Kibata Kihu,Standard]  MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto have alleged there is a plot to instigate violence and rig next year’s General Election.  They opposed a plan to arm chiefs and sub-chiefs, saying it was illegitimate and could portend a dark future for the country ahead of the polls.  At a press conference in Parliament yesterday, the same day Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua was arrested, the leaders accused the government of a conspiracy to rig 2022 polls.  “The whole affair depicts a government singularly devoted to a poorly conceived, utterly dangerous course of action intended to place the country in a situation of existential jeopardy,” reads a statement by Senators Susan Kihika (Nakuru) and Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho), as well as MPs Kimani Ichung’wah (Kikuyu) and David Sankok (nominated).  ACK bishops reject calls for postponement of 2022 General Election  Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua arrested  Hopes, fears as top leaders seek coalitions ahead of next year's race to State House  Don’t insult me on podiums; let’s resolve issues amicably – Uhuru Kihika claimed there was a “cabal that operates in the Office of the President”, which had infiltrated the National Police Service and was using it to pursue a political agenda.  “Some notorious government officers are pursuing unlawful, irregular and unconstitutional means to terrorise Kenyans ahead of the 2022 General Election,” she said without supporting the claims.  Kandara MP Alice Wahome and her Mumias East counterpart Benjamin Washiali pointed accusing fingers at Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho, whom they claimed is masterminding the plot through his deputy Moffat Kangi and directing Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai to establish a guide to arm chiefs and sub-chiefs.  The legislators said they were in possession of a letter by Dr Kibicho to Mr Kangi.  “We know that the sub-committee held its first meeting on July 7, 2021, and we have also established that this plan was discussed in the last meeting of regional and county commissioners at the Kenya School of Government a month ago,” said Kihika.  Wahome said the instructions to officers have not only shocked them but are shameful.  “We call upon the Inspector General of Police to come out and assure Kenyans that he will not betray the oath of office he took,” said Ichung’wah.   KANU leaders hint that they will seek presidency in the 2017 general elections   Deputy President William Ruto believes that CORD is out to cause mayhem in 2017  Rais Uhuru na William Ruto wamewaongoza ibada ya shukran Nakuru  By Hudson Gumbihi | 8 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura | 8 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 12 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi | 19 hours ago