The Capital Markets Authority (CMA) has given the nod to Crown Paints Kenya Plc to raise Sh711.80 million from shareholders via purchase of additional shares.  The regulator, in a statement yesterday, said it had approved the firm’s bid to issue and list 71,181,000 new ordinary shares on the Nairobi Security Exchange (NSE).  “The rights will be issued on the basis of one new ordinary share for every one existing share,” noted CMA.  The additional funds raised will boost the company’s financial flexibility to navigate through a tough business environment brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic.  It would also boost the firm’s growth strategy according to the information memorandum.  Capital markets approves Crown Paints rights issue   Kenya Airways trading suspended for 9 more months  Africa Alliance Investment Bank hands over stockbrokerage arm  Kestrel Capital exits fund management “The group’s management plans to use the rights issue funds to facilitate the development of new products, retiring of current facilities and funding regional expansion,” CMA said in a statement.  Wyckliffe Shamiah, the CMA chief executive observed that the disclosures made on the rights issue comply with the capital markets regulations and will enable investors to make an informed decision.  Mr Shamiah noted that the regulator had reviewed the application for exemptions from complying with Regulation 4 of the Capital Markets (Take Over and Mergers) Regulations, 2002 concerning the intention of the company’s major shareholders, who have undertaken to take up their full rights entitlements.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! “They are also willing to take more than their initial entitlements subject to availability during the rights issue,” said Shamiah.  Crown Paints is expected to make bi-annual updates to CMA on the use of the proceeds of the rights issue.   The CMA seeks to review capital markets regulations of 2002  Deepening the capital market in Kenya  CMA moves to court seeking to restrain businessman Jeremiah Kiereini from offloading his shares  By Frankline Sunday | 2 hours ago By Rose Birgen  | 2 hours ago By XN Iraki | 2 hours ago By Wainaina Wambu | 3 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements