Detectives are searching for a German man after his girlfriend’s body was found wrapped with a bedsheet and stashed under a bed in their house in Kilifi County.  Krabbe Dietter Gunther who is said to have fought with Cynthia Anyango Otieno on Wednesday night was spotted by neighbours leaving the apartment in Mdomodoni kwa Chief area of Mtwapa, carrying two bags at around 5 pm on Thursday.  Neighbours who got curious peeped through the window and saw the body of the 24-year-old woman lying on the floor, forcing them to call police to the scene.    Kilifi South Sub-County Police Commander Mohammed Wako said the woman was sharing an apartment with a German boyfriend aged 58.  18 killed in two road crashes   There is power in sharing knowledge   Kingi: Tender for hospital was open, above board  11 held in EACC swoop over Covid-19 hospital Blood was oozing from the nose and mouth of the woman’s body wrapped with a white bedsheet. At the scene, police found an alien German card with Gunther’s name on it.  "Blood was still oozing from the nose and mouth when we found it. We are looking for Gunther for questioning," said Wako, adding that the body had injuries at the back of the neck and head.  He added: "We have circulated the details of the suspect to police stations countrywide to aid in tracing the suspect who is a person of interest as of now.”  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! The woman is said to have been an employee of a local entertainment joint and she moved to the new apartment last December. Neighbours said there was a commotion in the house on Wednesday at around 10 pm.  Wako added the police were informed by the area chief that the body of the woman was lying on the floor after the neighbours peeped through the window when she failed to show up.  Residents who spoke to The Standard said the woman moved to the apartment last December and was later on joined by the white man.   Curse of Grey hair in Kilifi County  KTN's Lofty Matambo ties the knot in a colorful wedding  President Uhuru Kenyatta Malindi visit triggers storm By Standard Correspondent | 9 hours ago By Weldon Kipkemoi | 2 days ago By Philip Mwakio | 3 days ago By James Wanzala | 3 days ago Court quashes all senior parastatal appointments made by Uhuru in 2018