National Assembly Majority Leader Amos Kimunya has dismissed claims that he said he would resign if Jubilee fails to deliver in the Rurii by-election.  Kimunya said those are just political sentiments he expressed and did not consult the people of Kipipiri on whether he should resign as Majority leader.  The Kipipiri legislator had vowed to resign if Jubilee Party lost the Rurii Ward by-election in his Nyandarua backyard.  Jubilee candidate Peter Thinji lost to United Democratic Alliance's (UDA) Francis Muraya Githaiga, a party associated with Deputy President William Ruto.  In a video clip, Kimunya is captured saying: “I am the Jubilee Majority leader, this is our home and outsiders should not decide for us.”  Ruto’s call that gave UDA man victory in poll  Ensure all those behind by-election violence and bribery are punished  President Uhuru Kenyatta furious over recent string of losses  Is Ruto's persecution in Jubilee a blessing in disguise? He added, “Let us win this Rurii Ward by-election by 99 per cent so that those outsiders (UDA) trying to come here can be taught a lesson. Nyandarua is our home. If we lose in Rurii, I should just resign. How can Jubilee lose this seat in Nyandarua, and I am the Majority Leader?”  But on Wednesday, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) declared  Githaiga duly elected Member of County Assembly for Rurii.  “We thank God for Hustler nation victory in Juja and Rurii and the awesome show in Bonchari. A big congratulation to all our hustler teams for a sterling performance against all odds,” Ruto said.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website!      Ruto added: “Hongera our competitors, let's keep it issue-based and pull together. Sasa tupange uchumi na Big 4.”  During an event at the home of Kieni MP Kanini Kega, where a number of Cabinet Secretaries from Central and MPs attended, Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemiawas asked to ensure Jubilee retained the seat.  In a dramatic about-turn, Kimunya says he will not bear the consequences of a matter that rests in another constituency.  “Many things have happened within the political circles. Rurii Ward, Bonchari and Juja constituencies have new representatives. I want to congratulate those who have been elected and ask those that did not get enough votes to accept the results. Accept the verdict of the people and live to fight another day,” Kimunya says.  He said his appeal to those who won the by-elections is to get on the job with speed and start delivering on promises they made.  “We only have about 12 months before the next election. They do not have much time and the only way they can win the hearts of people to get to work immediately,” he said.  He said on whether he has to resign from his position as majority leader after Jubilee failed to deliver in the three by-elections, he will have to do more consultations.  “I did not consult the people of Kipipiri and this is a fundamental decision that needs public participation. I doubt they would let me bear the consequences of matters that rest in another constituency. I believe the matter rests there and we move on with congratulating the winners and living situation that people have made their choice and we must respect that choice,” he said.  This comes even as sources within the presidency indicate that President Uhuru Kenyatta is furious over a string of losses that his administration has been handed in recent days.  The sources said the Head of State was particularly angered by the outcome of Rurii Ward and Juja parliamentary by-elections, where his Jubilee Party was beaten.  The President is said to have read the riot act to some top Jubilee officials for reportedly bungling the Juja and Rurii campaigns.  Involvement of civil servants, especially from Harambee House, was reportedly also discussed, with politicians in the president’s inner circle blaming the power wielders for using brute police force, occasioning a protest vote.   Jubilee, ODM and UDA to faceoff in Bonchari and Juja by-elections on Tuesday | HOUSE OF CARDS  Jubilee VC David Murathe on who is next on the Jubilee's chopping board & BBI politics | #NEWSHOUR  Chama cha Jubilee kinaendelea kuwaadhibu waasi chamani haswa wandani wa Naibu Rais Ruto bungeni By Grace Ng'ang'a | 2 hours ago By James Munyeki | 5 hours ago By Allan Mungai and Josphat Thiong’o | 11 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 11 hours ago President Uhuru Kenyatta furious over recent string of losses