Five soldiers from Mtongwe Naval Base were on Sunday, May 9, arrested for allegedly being involved in a bar brawl that left a police officer nursing head injury.   The officers were on patrol enforcing curfew rules when a fight ensued between them and revellers at a bar in Diani in Kwale County.   According to Likoni sub-county police commander Jecktone Opengo, one of the police officers attached to Inuka Police Station is nursing deep cuts on the forehead after the attack on Saturday night.  The officer identified as PC Edmond Muoki was allegedly hit with a bottle of beer on the head.  Kwale’s Bora bora park, a hidden gem  Referendum will cure all contested BBI issues  Speeding vehicle kills two people in Kericho  Sakaja pleads guilty to breaching curfew rules, to pay Sh15,000 fine Five other officers who had been deployed to enforce the curfew rules escaped unhurt in the 10pm incident.  He was rushed to Diani Hospital where he was admitted.  The officers had stormed the Orion Bar in Vyemani area near the deputy county commissioner's offices where hundreds of revellers were holed up.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Also arrested was a bar attendant who were all locked up at Inuka Police Station awaiting arraignment on Monday.  Some of the revellers escaped leaving the soldiers inside when the commotion ensued.  The soldiers are helping police in the investigation to establish who attacked and injured the officer.  Opengo said the victim was responding well to treatment.  "The officer is responding well to treatment, he was cut on the head by some of the revellers at the said bar."  He said officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) are leading the investigations to establish the motive of the attack.  "Our DCI officers have taken up the matter for further investigations."   Son of Matuga MP, Hassan Mwanyoha sentenced to death by a Kwale court for robbery  Mwanawe mbunge wa Matuga Hasan Mwanyoha, Mafanikio Hassan Mwanyoha ,ahukumiwa kifo Kwale  LEO MASHINANI: Uharibifu wa ufuoni Diani na Francis Ontwoma 25th March 2016 pt 1 By Robert Menza | 1 day ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 3 days ago By Joackim Bwana | 5 days ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 days ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements