South Sudan’s President Salva Kiir (c) arrives in Uganda ahead of President Museveni’s swearing-in ceremony. [Courtesy]  Uganda’s President Yoweri Museveni is being sworn in today at Kololo Independence Grounds in Kampala, Uganda.  Security has been heightened in different parts of the capital city, Kampala. Crowds began forming as early as 8 am Wednesday, and several Ugandan citizens could be seen wearing masks.  Covid-19 protocols will apply.   Yesterday, police were heavily deployed outside the opposition National Unity Platform (NUP) offices.  Former Ugandan rebel commander Ongwen sentenced to 25 years in prison  Uganda says it detains American over subversive activities  Governments should leave journalists alone  Museveni’s critic seeks political asylum in Kenya Museveni is being sworn in for a sixth term in office.  Standard Digital can authoritatively confirm that some Heads of State have already jetted into Uganda ahead of the inauguration, as others make way this morning.  The Ugandan government has confirmed the arrival and attendance of African President’s among them; Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnangagwa, Somalia’s Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed, South Sudan’s Salva Kiir, Namibia’s Hage Geingob, Ghana’s Nana Akufo Addo, DRC Congo’s Felix Tshisekedi, Évariste Ndayishimiye (Burundi), and Alpha Conde (Guinea).  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Somali President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed (centre) is received at Entebbe International Airport. [Courtesy]  Kenya and Tanzania Presidents Uhuru Kenyatta and Samia Suluhu respectively arrived in Uganda this morning.  Kenya has also sent two Cabinet Secretaries (Foreign Affairs CS Amb Raychelle Omamo and Transport CS James Macharia) as representatives while Nigeria’s Vice President Yemi Obisanjo is representing President Buhari.  On Monday, opposition politicians Bobi Wine and Kizza Besigye claimed that their homes had been surrounded by security officers ahead of the swearing-in.  Besigye wondered why the Government would deploy police to his house, yet he was out of the country.  Uganda’s National Army Deputy Spokesperson, Deo Akiiki, defended the move, saying it was meant to avert possible chaos.  Museveni won the highly-contested election in January this year to secure a sixth term in office, with 5.85 million votes (58.6%) against his main contender Wine who got 3.48 million votes (34.8%).  The 76-year old has been in power since 1986 and is one of Africa’s longest-serving leaders.      Security heightened in Kampala ahead of President Yoweri Museveni’s swearing in ceremony  FDC candidate Kiiza Besigye calls on the international community to reject the election results  Uganda Elections update: President Yoweri Museveni takes the lead as counting of votes continue By Reuters | 3 hours ago By Reuters | 4 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 6 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 1 day ago It’s business as usual for Isaac Mwaura despite axing from Senate