COTU boss Francis Atwoli (left) and Lawyer Ahmednasir Abdullahi differed on Twitter on Friday over the naming of a city street after the former. [File, Standard]  COTU Secretary-General Francis Atwoli and city lawyer Ahmednasir Abdullahi have accused each other of corruption in a vicious Twitter bust-up.  Atwoli accused Ahmednasir of midwifing a social ill and impunity.  “Some of the problems Kenyans face are because of lawyers like Ahmednasir ...,” said Atwoli in a Friday, May 28 post.  He claimed the lawyer started disliking him after he [Atwoli] stopped him from benefiting in a certain deal.  COTU: Resist veiled attempts to kill NHIF through an amendment bill  Not so fast, Francis Atwoli road runs into head winds  COTU boss Atwoli gets street named after him  What next for Atwoli after BBI setback? Ahmednasir also called for the removal of Atwoli from his COTU position over what he described as unexplained wealth.  Atwoli, however, said he was an honest man who worked hard for his assets.  “My record speaks for itself. I am a very honest man, I work hard, I never engage in corrupt dealings, I speak my mind and I am not a billionaire,” said the COTU boss.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Trouble started after Ahmednasir, in an earlier tweet, castigated the Nairobi County government for naming a street after the trade unionist, saying it sent a wrong signal to suffering workers.  He accused Atwoli of having abandoned workers to languish in poverty as he dined with the high and mighty at their expense.  Atwoli also dismissed as fake reports that the signpost at the road named after him had been removed.  Atwoli honoured  Nairobi County Government on Thursday renamed Dik Dik Road in Kileleshwa after Atwoli in honour of the veteran unionist.  "This road has been renamed after my good friend and brother bwana Francis Atwoli in recognition of his selfless contribution and agitating for the rights of Kenyan workers in the last 54 years," said Deputy Governor Anne Kananu.  Nairobi Deputy Governor Anne Kananu and Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli shortly after unveiling the road. [Courtesy].  Atwoli thanked Kananu's leadership for recognising his role in the trade movement and further reaffirmed his commitment to addressing the plight of Kenyan workers.  "I want to thank the leadership of Nairobi under Anne Kananu, for this great honour and recognition of services to the Government of the day, the community and workers at large. We will continue offering our unwavering support to the leadership of the county," he stated.  Atwoli has now joined the list of other prominent Kenyans such as Kenneth Matiba who had Accra Road renamed after him in March 2021, Garissa Senator Yussuf Haji who had Eastleigh's First Avenue renamed after him; the late football legend Joe Kadenge who had Kapiti Crescent Road renamed after him by the county Assembly earlier this year.   Kenyans question criteria used in the naming of the road after COTU Secretary General Francis Atwoli  COTU Boss Francis Atwoli re-elected for a fifth term in office, he will serve for another 5 years  Francis Atwoli ashauri serikali kutumia mikopo kupiga jeki biashara za wananchi Kenya By Julius Chepkwony | 5 hours ago By Patrick Muinde | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago By Tony Mochama | 5 hours ago Uhuru unveils major plans for Nyanza ahead of visit