A teenage boy on Saturday evening drowned in an open quarry filled with rainwater in Mumias East, Kakamega.  Kevin Kaneje, 16, was swimming with friends at the quarry in Lwasambe village when the incident happened.  Makokha Munyendo said his son left home without telling anyone where he was going but after an hour, a neighbour informed him that he had drowned.  "My son spent the day at home doing house chores. He only left to take a walk. I was shocked to learn about the tragedy from my neighbours," said Munyendo.   The boy was expected to join Form One later this year having received his Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) result last month. He scored 275 marks.  Five suspected robbers shot dead on Kakamega-Kisumu road  Kakamega twins to take different paths thanks to KCSE results  He did it in KCPE, he has done it again  School tussles with a family over felled tree The body was retrieved this morning and taken to St Mary's Hospital Mumias Mortuary.  Mumias East police commander David Ndirangu said they were informed about the incident by the locals.     Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Residents have raised concern over several open quarries in the area which pose a danger to them. They petitioned the government to intervene.  "We have over five big quarries in the village and they have turned into a death trap. We call on the government to refill them to save lives," said David Sakwa, a resident.  The quarries provided construction stones and gravel in the late 1980s during the tarmacking of the Kakamega-Mumias highway.  According to the residents, it is not the first time the quarries have claimed a life. They said a teenage girl drowned in one of the quarries a couple of years ago and also livestock had died in the past.  "This quarry is dangerous to our kids and if not filled it will turn tragic," said Mary Salasia, another resident.  Area MP Benjamin Washiali said he will ensure the quarries are refilled. "We are looking for water boozers to drain the stagnant waters then later we look for ways to refill the quarries."    Kakamega twins to take different career paths after registering different grades in the KCSE 2020  Pacha wa Kakamega wafaulu katika mtihani wa KCSE 2020, walitambulika sana baada ya kupatana  Siasa za ODM: Gavana wa Kaunti ya Kakamega, Wycliffe Oparanya anataka aungwe mkono By Mercy Adhiambo | 1 hour ago By Julius Chepkwony | 1 hour ago By James Munyeki | 1 hour ago By Boniface Gikandi | 1 hour ago