Tanzania President Samia Suluhu with her host President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House, Nairobi, on May 4, 2021. [PSCU]  Kenya and Tanzania have signed a deal for the transportation of liquefied petroleum gas via pipeline from Mombasa to Dar es Salaam.  The announcement was made today at State House by visiting Tanzania President Samia Suluhu.  President Suluhu is in Kenya for a two-day state visit.  She further added that Tanzanian and Kenyan health ministers will craft a framework for speedy Covid-19 checks at the borders to avoid crossing delays.  Coast hopes on Suluhu after six years strained trade ties  President Samia Suluhu Hassan to address Parliament today  Kenya and Tanzania appear to have always had frosty relations  Uhuru changes tune on purge against DP Ruto allies Host President Uhuru Kenyatta said Kenya and the Jubilee government will be at the forefront in working with Suluhu to ensure the East Africa unity and neighbourliness continues to grow.  "We are not only neighbours geographically, but have other elements in common such as culture, language and shared heritage," Uhuru said.  He cited the need to re-energise the Joint Commission of Cooperation, which both leaders say will play a crucial role in strengthening bilateral ties.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! The two said ministers would meet regularly to boost relations and solve regional challenges that hurt business.  Uhuru also added that there is a need to improve communication and transport through air, water, road and railway, citing the construction of the Malindi-Lunga Lunga-Bagamoyo road.  President Kenyatta further pressed on the need for the safety of citizens and the countries' leadership in the fight against terrorism.  In their fight to boost relations between the two countries, Samia invited Uhuru to Tanzania for the December independence day when the country will celebrate 60 years of independence.  President Suluhu went on, adding that Kenya is Tanzania’s top investor in the East African Community, and fifth on the continent. She cited 513 projects worth $1.7 billion which have created 51,000 jobs for Tanzanians.  In her address delivered in Swahili, President Suluhu said Tanzania will boost the volume of trade in Kenya as well as look at more investment opportunities in manufacturing, tourism, agriculture and fishing among others.  She was invited by President Uhuru Kenyatta to Kenya in April in a move to improve frosty relations between the two countries.  President Kenyatta had invited President Suluhu to Nairobi to mend relations between the two countries that escalated under the reign of former President John Magufuli, now deceased.  On April 10 Uhuru sent Sports CS Amina Mohamed to Tanzania to formally deliver Kenya’s invite to President Suluhu.   President Suluhu will on Tuesday begin a two-day State visit on the invitation of President Kenyatta  Rais wa Tanzania Samia Suluhu Hassan atangaza mikakati mpya ya kupambana na virusi vya Korona  How matatu industry suffered a big blow after Uhuru's new COVID-19 measures | MORNING EXPRESS By Benard Sanga and Philip Mwakio | 58 seconds ago By William Omasire and Stanley Ongwae | 30 minutes ago By Fredrick Obura | 1 hour ago By Wainaina Wambu | 1 hour ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements