Former KTN Sport Editor Robert Soi.  Veteran sports journalist Robert Soi, who at one time worked at KTN, died on Wednesday afternoon at Nairobi Hospital, his family has said. He was 45.  The former KTN Sports editor and CGTN presenter was admitted to the hospital on Thursday, May 20, for surgery to clear a blood clot that developed in his brain after a fall. He went into a coma and was declared dead on Wednesday afternoon.  Following his death, tributes continue pouring in from the media fraternity, his audience and friends.  The Standard Editor John Bundotich, who worked with Soi, said he was creative and helped revitalise sports reporting at KTN and in Kenya.  Former KTN Sports Editor dies at 45  Family appeals for help for American man held in hospital over bill   Former State House Comptroller Abraham Kiptanui is dead  Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange is dead "He was creative and full of energy and his death is a big loss. My condolences to his family," Bundotich said.  The Standard Sports Editor Robin Toskin said Soi was one of the most accomplished sports journalists he had worked with and his death was a huge tragedy.  “His interviewing skills made the interview feel at ease and brought the best out of his subjects. We covered the 2010 Fifa World Cup in South Africa where he enriched my newspaper reporting and taught me how to conduct interviews both for electronic media and print," said Toskin.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! “His passing on is not only a blow to his family, but also sports journalism.”  Sports journalist Carol Radull tweeted: "This is devastating! I have so much love and respect for this man! So humble and gracious! Rest in Peace Soi."  Activist Boniface Mwangi said: "Soi was that cool, quiet, confident chap in the Standard Group newsroom".  "May the good Lord comfort Catherine and the entire Soi's family. May he rest in sporting peace," said Mwangi.  Soi, a motorsport and golf enthusiast, worked at The Standard Group-owned television station before leaving to join Chinese broadcaster CGTN where he served as an editor and operations manager.  He reported the 2010 Fifa World Cup in South Africa for KTN and participated in the Safari Rally in the 2011 KCB Safari Rally. He, however, left the media to pursue personal projects and was a communications consultant.  He was also a director at the Youth Agenda, a lobby for youth inclusion. He is survived by wife Catherine and two children.  angige@standardmedia.co.ke   Former Kenyan First Lady Lucy Kibaki flown to London for treatment  Kisumu’s triplets who had their lives threatened by heart disease undergo successful surgery  Bigwa wa mashindano ya magari Jaspreet ashinda mbio za Nakuru By Mactilda Mbenywe | 3 hours ago By PSCU | 3 hours ago By Moses Nyamori and Jacob Ng’etich | 3 hours ago By Kariuki Waihenya | 3 hours ago Slain businessman Mohamed Bashir was building Sh1.8b prison in Somalia