Fear has gripped villagers at Ebunyanganyi in Navakholo, Kakamega County after a coffin was found at the doorstep of the house of one of the locals. Residents woke up and found a small coffin wrapped in a white woolen piece of cloth at the entrance of Peter Wekondi’s house.  Hundreds of shocked locals thronged Wekondi’s home to witness the weird incident that has become the talk of the village.  Jenipher Masika, a farmhand was shocked to see the coffin neatly placed at the doorstep of her employer who was still asleep.  Wekondi, has been in and out of hospital since he finished constructing his new house which remains unoccupied until he recovers.  “I was going to the farm when I spotted the small casket placed at the main door of the new house. I got scared but gathered courage and woke up family members who were in a separate house.”  Murder most foul: Shock as man defiles and stabs two teenagers  Suspects are considered criminals even when they have committed no crime, says disablity sensitivity trainer  Her new six-month love ended tragically  Court wants two to be parties to Sh100m case Ms Masika said she has never witnessed such a bizarre incident in her life. “Everyone was afraid to move near the coffin,” she told journalists.  Family members were tongue-tied when they saw the coffin.  The casket was placed at the main entrance and it had three crosses on top.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Jackeline Oteng’o, Wekondi’s wife said they were waiting for her husband to be discharged before they move into the new house.  According to Ms Oteng’o, it was hard to tell the motive behind the dumping of the coffin in the home.  “When the worker informed us about the coffin, it sounded like a joke. But we were shocked when we saw it,” she said.  “We shall conduct special prayers and a ceremony to exorcise evil spirits before occupying the house given what has befallen us,” she added.       Crime in Nyeri: Three women arrested in Nyeri town for drugging and stealing from men  Curse of Grey hair in Kilifi County  Police in Kisumu arrests one suspect in ongoing security operation By John S Shilitsa | 4 days ago By Willy Lusighe and Betty Njeru | 4 days ago By Robert Amalemba | 5 days ago By John Shilitsa | 6 days ago Grab a copy of today's Standard & Nairobian Epaper for only 10/-