The Nyamira County Government has not utilised Sh87 million grant to boost the agriculture sector for the last two years.  Members of County Assembly (MCAs) are now demanding answers regarding the funds that had been allocated to support farmers.  County Assembly Speaker Moffat Teya sought an explanation from the Executive through the Assembly’s Finance Committee on why farmers were suffering when money was lying idle in a bank account.  “We need to know why the monies are lying idle in the bank account for two years. The executive in charge of Finance and Planning is required to appear before the committee on Finance to give details on this matter within 14 days,” Speaker Teya said during the Thursday session.  Magombo MCA Richard Onyinkwa said the executive should explain why the money had not been put to use and demanded that the Finance department ensures the money was utilised.  KQ now courts banks for loan term extension  41 years after lightning killed 11 pupils, schools still unsafe  Why the cost of your breakfast is set to go up  Ouko seeks ‘adequate’ funding of Judiciary “We will be keen to know the real purpose that the money is meant to serve. Let the money be put to use before the end of this financial year,” he said.  The money was given as a grant to the county government for the financial year 2018/2019 under the Devolution Support Programme.   “We are unable to answer various questions directed to us from locals. This is money meant to spur growth in the agriculture sector,” Kiabonyoru MCA Duke Omoti said.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website!     CoG seeks funds from treasury as Counties face financial challenges | The Way It is | Part 1  Kamau Thugge has challenged private companies to develop proper risk management   Government promise to resettle IDPs By Julius Chepkwony  | 2 minutes ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 5 hours ago By James Omoro | 8 hours ago By Weldon Kemboi | 8 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements