Meru MCA Eunice Karegi was undergoing treatment in India. [Courtesy]  Meru MCA Eunice Karegi is dead.  The Kiagu ward rep died on Thursday, May 27 while undergoing treatment at a hospital in India.  Keregi, who was elected on a Maendeleo Chap Chap party ticket, was one of the two women elected MCAs in the county assembly of Meru.  Endangered mountain bongo to be flown from US  Meru artistes put ‘can’t sing’ claim to rest  Four in court over election of MCAs  Meru demands lion's share of miraa funds MCC party leader Alfred Mutua while sending his condolences described Karegi as a faithful, sharp and focused member of the party.  He said the MCA succumbed to cancer.  I pass my condolences to the family of our Maendeleo Chap Chap MCA Eunice Karegi. Eunice was a faithful party member, sharp, pleasant and focused person,” Mutua said in a tweet on Thursday.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Meru County Assembly Majority Leader Victor Karithi described the news of Karegi’s death as shocking and saddening.  Karithi said she was a visionary, diligent and hardworking MCA who served her people well.  He said the MCA consulted a lot with Governor Kiraitu Murungi and his administration in matters of development for her people.  “It is a great loss, we will miss her. Though she was elected on a CMM ticket, she worked cordially with Governor Kiraitu and other her colleagues to realise developments,” he added.  “She was passionate about the infrastructural projects and those that empower her people. She was a leader even before being elected.”  Assembly Speaker Joseph Kaberia termed the demise a significant loss not only to colleagues and people of Kiagu ward but also to the whole county.  “On my behalf and entire Meru assembly fraternity I convey our sincere condolences to family, friends, people of Kiagu and entire county government of Meru,” said Kaberia.   Residents of Meru county express their opinions on the state of the Kenyan economy  A form three student receiving treatment after sustaining serious burns after a dormitory fire  Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri dismisses claims that County governments have not received money By Mireri Junior | 30 minutes ago By Gerald Mutethia | 2 days ago By Stephen Nzioka | 2 days ago By Philip Muasya | 2 days ago Vicious power games erupt Mt Kenya