Homa Bay Deputy County Commissioner Jude Wasonga, Tom Mboya Principal Prof Charles Ochola, Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha and Maseno University Vice-Chancellor Prof Julius Nyabundi during supervision of infrastructural development at Tom Mboya University College in Homa Bay on May 21, 2021. [James Omoro, Standard]  Education Cabinet Secretary Prof George Magoha has told Tom Mboya University College management to prioritise research on fish production and how to end perennial water shortage in Homa Bay County.  The university which is the first higher learning institution in the county was opened in Homa Bay town in 2016. It currently operates as a constituent college of Maseno University.  Prof Magoha, who was accompanied by Homa Bay Deputy County Commissioner Jude Wasonga, Homa Bay County Director of Education Fredrick Kiiru, Maseno University Vice-Chancellor Prof Julius Nyabundi and Tom Mboya Principal Prof Charles Ochola, said the purpose of a university is to undertake research for ending problems facing the society.  “Homa Bay County is known for water shortage but the work of a university is to solve societal problems. Let this university focus on water and do research which can end water shortage in Homa Bay,” said Prof Magoha.  Employment court reinstates impeached official until case is determined  Police net bhang in abandoned car  Homa Bay residents lament month-long power outage   Duo linked to rape and murder of Homa Bay teen arrested Magoha who spoke on Friday when he supervised the construction of a Sh300 million storey building that will be used for classes and laboratories in the university, said the young university can survive well if it focuses on fish production.  He argued that the community in which the university operates recognises fish as their best diet hence investing in research aimed at producing fish will make it prosper.  “I am impressed by the infrastructural development going on in this university. However, it must invest in research on fish production for it to survive,” he added.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! The CS said the university has the capability to be the chief producer of fish in Homa Bay County as part of both academic and economic development.  “We don’t expect lecturers of this university to depend on fish got from elsewhere. Focus on fish production too,” Magoha said.  Tom Mboya is currently undertaking a number of infrastructural development projects to enable it to acquire a charter so that it becomes a fully-fledged university. However, it has not been established when it will acquire the charter.   It has 3000 students pursuing various courses.  The university started with agriculture, business and education courses.  The university was built at the Homa Bay Farmers Training Centre (FTC) which used to train farmers on good farming practices.   Dr. Amolo who was stabbed by his son passes on  Over 2000 police officers to man Homa Bay senatorial voting process   Wagombezi wa Kiti cha Seneti ya Homa Bay wanatarajiwa kuongea juu ya uchaguzi By James Omoro | 1 day ago By Kepher Otieno | 1 day ago By Paul Ogemba | 2 days ago By Erick Abuga | 2 days ago Grab a copy of the latest Standard for only 10 shillings & access the last 10 editions for free