Former Kibwezi MP Richard Kalembe Ndile died at Nairobi Hospital on Sunday morning at around 5:30am after a long illness.  According to the deceased’s younger brother, Sam Ndile, the former vocal legislator was taken ill on Wednesday night from his Mlolongo home complaining of stomach pains.  The brother confirmed that Ndile was in and out of various hospitals for some time before his demise.  “On Wednesday night around 8pm he became seriously sick while at home and I took him to Aga Khan Hospital where he was examined. At around 10pm, we were referred to the same hospital, but we found no bed space,” the family spokesperson told The Standard.  Ndile is reported to have asked his brother to take him to the Nairobi Hospital for further treatment.  Kalembe Ndile: Self-made leader who defended the underprivileged  President Uhuru mourns former MP Kalembe Ndile  Tributes pour in for former KTN Sports Editor Robert Soi  Former KTN Sports Editor dies at 45 “When we found all beds were occupied at Pangani he personally instructed me to drive him to the Nairobi Hospital,” he added  He was diagnosed with multiple illnesses including; liver cirrhosis, cancer of the stomach, and kidney failure which necessitated medics to recommend that he be taken into theatre.  “He suffered multiple illnesses and at some point, he was wheeled to the theatre where he was supposed to undergo a correction surgery. The facility asked for blood donors and people turned up and donated blood for him. However, this didn’t succeed since his situation worsened,” Sam said  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! He was taken into the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) on Saturday night where he was pronounced dead on Sunday morning.  Ndile, 57, is survived by 10 children, and six other adopted children studying in various schools.  The late politician cum a businessman was the second last born in a family of 7.  The body was transferred to Lee Funeral Home at around 11am.   Before his death, Ndile had become a staunch supporter of the Wiper Party having played a bigger role in the just concluded by-elections in Kitise/Kithuki ward, and Machakos senatorial seat where the Party won.      nzioka@standardmedia.co.ke        Former Kenyan First Lady Lucy Kibaki flown to London for treatment  Kisumu’s triplets who had their lives threatened by heart disease undergo successful surgery  Kalembe Ndile and Governor Alfred Mutua lead Kambas to a new movement By Patrick Vidija | 1 hour ago By Patrick Vidija | 3 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo and Winfrey Owino | 4 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago How night of fun ended in a day of bullets for woman and nephew