President Uhuru Kenyatta, Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed and Somalia President Mohamed Farmaajo when they met in Nairobi to discuss the maritime boundary dispute.[Courtesy]  Somalia has restored diplomatic ties with Kenya amid maritime boundary row and pledged respect for sovereignty.  President Mohamed Farmaajo spokesperson Abdirashid Hashi on May 6, said the latest move is in the interest of the two countries and based on mutual benefit and respect.  “In the interest of good neighbourliness, Federal Government of Somalia resumes Diplomatic ties with Kenya based on mutual benefit and respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity, non-external interference, peaceful co-existence and equality,” he said.  Hashi said President Farmaajo and his Kenyan counterpart Uhuru Kenyatta were grateful to the Emir of Qatar for his intervention which saw the two agree.  Eyes on Senate as Uhuru, Raila ask parliamentarians to pass BBI bill  Reprieve for Mwaura, Omanga in Jubilee expulsion case  We’re ready to cooperate, hug you: Suluhu to Kenyans  Kenya and Tanzania agree to iron out trade barriers The announcement came shortly after President Kenyatta received a special message from the Emir of the State of Qatar, His Highness Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani.  State House said the Emir’s message was delivered to the President by Dr Mutlaq bin Majed Al-Qahtani, who is the Special Envoy of the Foreign Minister of the State of Qatar for Counterterrorism and Mediation of Conflict Resolution.  In December 2020, Somalia announced it had severed diplomatic ties with Kenya in the dead of night citing interference and violation of her sovereignty and territorial integrity.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Somalia Minister of Information Osman Abukar Dubbe announced cutting ties with Kenya at around 1:40 am Mogadishu time on state-run SNTV, hours after President Kenyatta held talks with break-away Somaliland President Muse Bihi at State House, Nairobi.  Mogadishu said it would withdraw all its diplomats from Kenya and ordered Kenyan diplomats to leave the country within 7 days.  ‘’Somalia wants all its diplomats to go back to Mogadishu and Kenyan diplomats have 7 days to leave the country,’’ said Osman Dubbe.     President Suluhu will on Tuesday begin a two-day State visit on the invitation of President Kenyatta  How matatu industry suffered a big blow after Uhuru's new COVID-19 measures | MORNING EXPRESS  Presidential address on the state of Covid-19: Curfew hours revised, cessation of movement announced By Isaiah Gwengi | 2 hours ago By Allan Mungai | 2 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 2 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 2 hours ago Southern Bypass crash victim identified