Three fishermen have been arrested in Homa Bay County in connection with the death of their colleague.  The fishermen who hail from Wadiang’a beach in Suba sub-county were arrested Monday morning and detained at Sindo police post.  Dancun Omondi alias Nelly met his death on Saturday night while in the company of his colleagues who were on a fishing expedition.  The four fishermen had left Wadiang’a beach and went fishing near Takawiri Island in the neighboring Suba North sub-county.  According to the Secretary of Wadiang’a Beach Management Unit Collins Ochieng’, Omondi disagreed with one of the three fishermen and ended up fighting.  How flooding has united school, community for children’s sake  Lake View: Scholars’ pub of choice  How to reap handsome returns by keeping tilapia in your backyard  State imports Sh200m equipment to end Homa Bay town water crisis “The fishermen said Omondi slipped into the lake while exchanging blows with the colleague,” said Ochieng’, adding that the fishermen went into the lake when they were drunk.  “I think they were acting under the influence of alcohol which is rampant in our beaches,” Ochieng’ said.    Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Omondi’s body is yet to be retrieved.  Suba Sub-county Police Commander Antony Njeru said the three men have been detained as police probe the matter.  “We don’t know whether they killed him and dumped his body in the lake or the fisherman drowned after slipping from the boat as they say,” Njeru said.  Njeru said he will hand the suspects to his colleagues in the Mbita Sub-county where the incident occurred.      Kenyan fishermen at Lake Victoria face unmerited harassment by Ugandan security officers  Women considered a 'bad omen' aboard fishing boats  Three fishermen feared dead, after their boat capsized in lake Naivasha By Olivia Odhiambo | 5 hours ago By Caleb Kingwara | 7 hours ago By James Omoro | 1 day ago By Erick Abuga | 1 day ago Bitter sibling rivalry threatens to split Ruto camp ahead of 2022 poll