Jaki Mathaga from Authors Dream Autism Trust Foundation says suspects with intellectual disability need to be assessed for the ability to stand trial as intellectual disability is not the same illness.  “The justice system may need to adjust the language and be patient to ensure the information has been understood” including clarity so that they don’t mistake admission of guilty as conditions for reduced sentences or “make the police go away.”  They end up at Mathari due to biased and bad practice and Jaki says there is need for access to a diagnosis, an interpreter and family support to ensure the person is not feeling stressed.  Suspects have rights under Article 49 (1) of the Constitution which provides that they be informed promptly, in a language that they understand the reason for the arrest; their right to remain silent; consequences of not doing so and that they should not be compelled to make any confession or admission that could be used against them.  Alarm as national blood bank has no single drop  Alarm as national blood bank has no single drop Jaki explains that most suspects ”are considered criminals even when there is no crime, they are also considered a danger to themselves and others even when there is no history of violence. The bias goes to show the discriminant practice. A “normal” person would be fined for that petty offence but a person with intellectual disability will be held onto it.”  Murang'a MP Sabina Chege chairs the National Assembly Health Committee and laments that “once they are taken to Mathari, the prisons leave them there saying they don’t own them anymore, and Mathari says that these are people from the prisons.”  This happens Parliament calling for the improvement of the congestion at Mathari two years ago. Abraham Musili filed a constitutional petition challenging the continuous detention of persons with psychosocial disabilities under presidential pleasure (now unconstitutional). However, it has stalled due to Covid-19.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Rosa Agutu     Crime in Nyeri: Three women arrested in Nyeri town for drugging and stealing from men  Police in Kisumu arrests one suspect in ongoing security operation  Fear grips residents of Khwisero, Kakamega following a spate of bizarre killings By Mireri Junior | 2 hours ago By Mercy Adhiambo | 4 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 7 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 7 hours ago