Police in Makuyu, Murang’a County, dispersed a group of people that had taken to the streets to celebrate a High Court ruling that declared steps to amend the constitution through the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) illegal.  The marchers, who included boda boda riders, were said to be supporters of Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro. They first converged at the MP’s constituency office before marching to Murang’a town. The police impounded a vehicle that had been mounted with loudspeakers.  One of the protesters, Kamau Mutuota, faulted the police for their action saying they had all the right to celebrate the High Court ruling that declared null and void the Constitution of Kenya Amendment Bill of 2020 process.  “County assemblies only passed the contentious bill after MCA were given a Sh2 million car grant each,” said Mutuota.  Peter Kamotho accused BBI proponents of wasting money on an illegal process at a time the economy is weak especially following the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.  BBI appeal: Lawyers claim chances of success low  We have no interest in impeaching President Uhuru - UDA allied MPs  Ruto, Atwoli differ on BBI shock ruling  Appeal ruling, Governor Lee Kinyanjui tells BBI proponents “The cost of living is high and hundreds of families are suffering as a results of the Covid-19 pandemic. We don’t need a referendum,” said Kamotho.  Nyoro is among Mt Kenya leaders who have been in opposition to the BBI process.  Another group, which said it supported the BBI process met at General Ihura Stadium. One of the protesters, James Mwangi, said residents support the proposed constitutional amendments saying the MP should be ignored.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! “Nyoro and Senator Irungu Kang’ata are lone rangers. They have separated themselves from the rest of the Mt Kenya leaders who are supportive of BBI," said Mwangi.  Nyoro and Kang’ata have been leading opposition to the document in Murang'a County while area governor Mwangi wa Iria and Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia have been spearheading BBI campaigns.  Kigumo MP Wangari Mwanikia is a member of the Mt Kenya region BBI secretariat.       ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna discusses party politics & the BBI bill | #NEWSHOUR  Jubilee VC David Murathe on who is next on the Jubilee's chopping board & BBI politics | #NEWSHOUR  Intrigues of the BBI bill, as the clock ticks on the process of amending the 2010 constitution By John Mbuthia | 1 day ago By George Njunge | 2 days ago By Collins Kweyu | 2 days ago By Jane Mugambi | 5 days ago Ruto, Atwoli differ on BBI shock ruling as COTU boss ‘demands’ action against 5 judges