Inspector-General of Police Hilary Mutyambai on Sunday, May 9 directed DCI to probe a viral clip of a female police officer complaining of sexual harassment and discrimination by senior officers.  Mutyambai directed the Directorate of Criminal Investigation to investigate the claims made by the female officer attached to Traffic Department in Mombasa County and report their findings within the next seven days.  “I have directed the Gender and Children Directorate to independently investigate the matter and give a report within 7 days,” he said.  The IG said he had learned of the viral video of a female officer lamenting against unfair treatment and sexual harassment.  “I have learnt of a video trending on social media where a female Police Officer is captured lamenting against unfair treatment and sexual harassment.”  Court defers murder charge against Velvine Nungari's prime suspect  Slain Kitengela Four man linked to criminal gang   Two suspected gangsters shot dead in Nairobi  MCAs now train guns on Kananu over medical fund In the video, the female cop is heard pleading with Mutyambai to allow him to resign from the service, claiming her seniors have blocked her resignations letters.  “I have been writing several resignation letters to the Inspector General of Police but they are being blocked down here, I am tired of the service, I want to go do other things,” she said.  , she has decided to resign to escape the mistreatment.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! She urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to disband the service, adding that apart from bribery and corruption, nothing is happening in the office.  “There is no service, nothing is going on in these offices. They are full of corrupt [seniors], taking bribes and earning salaries at the same time.”  News about police suicides, attacks by police officers on colleagues and family members are on the rise.  Within the first five days of January 2021, five police officers died in murder-suicide situations.  Recently, a police officer killed his wife, also a policewoman, then committed suicide.  Among the reasons given for the spike in these homicides and suicides are issues of policing within the Kenyan context.  Many officers also suffer silently under bad or unfair superiors due to the real-life consequences of reporting superiors.  Those who try find themselves transferred to hardship areas or may have to contend with career stagnation.   Bogus Degrees: DCI, EACC and IEBC to track culprits, team to hunt people with fake certificates  Former Governor Mike Sonko detained at DCI headquarters; he is to face robbery and assault charges  Sonko Summoned: Sonko expected to present himself at DCI to record a statement on his sentiments By Judah Ben-Hur | 5 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 1 day ago By Brian Okoth | 1 day ago By Brian Okoth | 2 days ago Is Orengo charting his path away from Raila?