The prisons’ service, in partnership with Faraja Foundation, has rolled out a rehabilitation programme for inmates.  The programme targets enhancing structures at the correctional facilities and making them friendlier to prison staff and inmates.  Jane Kuria, the CEO of Faraja Foundation, says the non-governmental organisation aims for successful reintegration of inmates to the community upon release from prison.  “Faraja Foundation wants to be remembered for supporting former convicts to reintegrate back to the community,” Kuria noted.  She added that many ex-convicts had to start lives afresh after jail terms, hence the need to help them fill the gap in reintegrating with society.  New life for man sentenced to hang in 2005  Wasted in jail, confused in freedom  CS Matiang'i promises new dawn for Kenya Prisons  Kenya Prisons win bronze at Africa Clubs Championship Donating beds and other items was a way of helping inmates survive and get rehabilitated in preparation for their return to society, she added.  The foundation aims to distribute 2,160 beds to the 43 women prisons that hold about 2,615 inmates and 210 children accompanying them.  Speaking during the unveiling of day-care built by Faraja at Embu Women’s prison, Kuria said children jailed with their mothers did not deserve to undergo hardship.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! David Bett, chair of Faraja Foundation, challenged stakeholders to consider a review of the open-door policy that will also see prison staff benefit more.  Winnie Guchu, the Ministry of Interior and Coordination CAS, said the government had targeted to have day-care centres in all women’s prisons.  “Women convicted with children lacked caretakers of their children at home and this forced them to carry the babies along for the duration of their sentences,” said Ms Guchu.  She said the children were innocent and that they had the right to a conducive environment for growth through the day-care centres.  “These children should have places for entertainment, playing as well as good sleeping areas,” said Guchu.  She unveiled the day-care center and received 160 of 2,160 beds from the Faraja Foundation, destined for distribution in all the 43 women’s prisons countrywide.  Also present was Commissioner of Prisons Wycliffe Ogallo.       11 Ethiopians imprisoned for 6 months after being found guilty of being in the country illegally  Over ten thousand prisoners to be set free in a bid to decongest prisons  Baadhi ya wafungwa wa gereza la Voi wabatizwa By Muriithi Mugo | 5 days ago By Phares Mutembei | 7 days ago By Muriithi Mugo | 13 days ago By Phares Mutembei | 13 days ago Grab a copy of today's Standard & Nairobian Epaper for only 10/-