A driver who was sacked by Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology has been awarded Sh342,316 for a breach of his contract.  Justice Stephen Radido of the Kisumu Employment and Labour court observed that Edwin Mutanda was fairly sacked for forging a work ticket and his argument that he was being victimised because he was a union official was untenable.  “The court finds that the summary dismissal of Mutanda was fair. But I will award him a sum for the breach of his employment contract,” said the judge last week.  Mutanda alleged that he was victimised on the grounds of his being a deputy secretary of the Kenya Universities Staff Union (KUSU) and for having agreed to be a witness in a criminal complaint against the vice-chancellor.  Common legal issues that sink Kenyan enterprises  Artcafe to pay manager sacked over leftovers  Why it is easy to get a job in the Gulf  Is it time to stop Kenyans from seeking jobs in the Gulf? The university, however, contended that his dismissal was based on his negligence and careless performance of his duties. The particulars given were that he falsified a work ticket.  The court found out that the entries in the work ticket were deliberate and were meant to claim a higher daily subsistence allowance.  Mutanda challenged the university’s disciplinary process on several grounds, including that the committee was not properly constituted because “it was co-chaired by the VC and was thus biased.”  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! He also argued that trade union officials present during the hearing of his case did not represent his interest in the true letter and spirit of unionism.      Public Service CS Sicily Kariuki dismisses CORD’s claims of parallel registration to rig elections  Port standoff: truck drivers fear for their jobs  UGANDA DECIDES; Issues likely to dominate Uganda’s election By James Omoro | 8 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 10 hours ago By Stanley Ongwae | 19 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 2 days ago Uhuru Kenyatta changes tune on purge against DP William Ruto allies