The body of Bashir Mohamed has been found at Kerugoya Level 5 Hospital mortuary.  The Somali-American businessman went missing from Kilimani in Nairobi on Thursday, May 13.  Bashir’s body was retrieved from River Nyamindi last Sunday, May 16, where it had been dumped by unknown people.  Kirinyaga county criminal investigating officer (CCIO) Kiplagat Korir who spoke to The Standard said they took the body to Kerugoya Level 5 Hospital mortuary awaiting identification.  Police say it took time to identify him as his face was disfigured and he had injuries on his body.  Family in agony after kin went missing in 'police custody'  Family, school trade blame as student goes missing Korir said they took fingerprints from the body for identification and that is when it was established to be Mohamud Bashir Mohammed.  “We were informed that there was a body at River Nyamindi’s bed, that is Sunday last week (16/05/2021), we visited the scene where we collected the body and booked it at the Kerugoya morgue. Since it was naked and did not have any documents for identification, we took the fingerprints for identification. The details came late last night (Saturday 22/05/2021), showing that it was Bashir’s,” said Korir.  Earlier, Bashir’s family went to court seeking the release of their kin whom they believed was being held by police incommunicado.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! In a habeas corpus application filed at the Kajiado Law Courts, the family said they had every reason to believe Bashir was arrested by police officers.  Inspector-General of Police, Interior Cabinet Secretary, Director of Public Prosecution, OCS Oloolua Police Station, OCS Muthangari Police Station and the United States of America were listed as respondents in the petition.  “The police officers under the direction and command of the Respondents carried out an arbitrary arrest commando style and without any legal and moral consideration carried out unwarranted, intrusive, abusive and demeaning arrest,” said Bashir’s brother, Abdifatah Mohamed Mohamud.  CCTV footage revealed that Bashir was last seen leaving Miale Lounge in Lavington.  According to Abdifatah, attempts to trace him or obtain information from government agencies were met with stubbornness and resistance.  “All factors considered point to the fact Bashir was arrested by the officers,” said Abdifatah in court papers. He accused the American government of being non-committal about his brother’s whereabouts.  35-year-old Bashir was the director of Infinity Developers Limited. He had been in Kenya for the last five years undertaking multimillion shillings construction projects in Kenya, notably the Kibuye Market in Kisumu.   Preliminary investigations indicate his Range Rover was captured by CCTV cameras leaving Miale Lounge at around 6pm on May 13. In the footage, Bashir is seen speaking to security guards while handing them some cash.  The same evening, the businessman attempted to call his wife who had just given birth a week earlier. According to his family, the couple barely spoke as the call was interrupted before cutting off.  Deputy Inspector General Edward Mbugua told the National Assembly Committee on Administration and Security on May 20 that investigations commenced immediately a missing person report was made at Muthangari Police Station.  This was after the family sought a statement on Bashir’s whereabouts through the committee chaired by Limuru MP Peter Mwathi.  Lawyer Alibhai Hassan said they decided to go to court after failing to help from government. “We have also written to Interior CS Fred Matiang’i seeking clear answers regarding Bashir’s whereabouts,” added Alibhai.  On the day he went missing Bashir’s car was traced to Kibiku by a Range Rover dealer. The dealer reported that the car was burning in a wildfire and contacted officers from the nearby Kibiku Police Post and Ngong Police Station.  newsdesk@standardmedia.co.ke       (Additional reporting by Sara Okuoro and Hudson Gumbihi)   Worrying trend of missing persons force Kenyans to turn to social media to find missing relatives  Wakenya wabuni njia za kuwatafuta jamaa zao wanaopotea kupitia mtandao  KTN Leo Full bulletin, 30 Agosti 2015 By Wainaina Ndung’u | 4 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 4 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 7 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 8 hours ago Grab a copy of today's Standard & Nairobian Epaper for only 10/-