Three brothers have been arrested by police in Nandi after they were accused of having unnatural acts with a cow.  Residents Chepterwai village woke up to shocking news after the cow was found dead near Teresia Forest.  According to the owner of the cow, Kimaiyo Kiyos, the suspects are said to have been living in the forest along the Nandi escapement.  “The cow was missing in the cowshed when we woke up in the morning. After we started a search we found it dead just near the forest, 500 meters away from home,” he narrated.    Mali's top court declares coup leader Goita as interim president  How would it be had Israelis become Nandis’ neighbours?  Cow dung infection, not ‘evil eyes’ kills babies  Alarm as 250 cows killed after feeding on suspected poisonous weed The animal was lying dead with signs of bleeding on its reproductive organs.  “This is an abomination. We managed to identify the criminals and one of them was arrested by members of the public. We were surprised to find our own sons were behind the reprehensible act,” Kimaiyo said.  The residents who were left shaken by the incident said that some young people in the area have resorted to drug abuse which could be fuelling criminal acts.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! “We suspect that the suspects were under the influence of drugs. We are calling upon the security team to intensify the crackdown on the illicit brew and drugs that has affected our children,” Kiyos appealed.  Nandi North Police Commander Jamleck Nyangauria confirmed that three of the suspects have been arrested after the affected owner of the cow reported to the Chepterwai police post.  The accused were transferred to Kabiyet police station.  “They are set to be presented before the court on Monday. It is such an unusual criminal act that we cannot reveal the details of the offenders at the moment,” OCPD Nyangauria said.   Tembea Kenya tunaangazia eneo alikozikwa mpiganaji wa Wakalenjin Koitalel Arap Somoei   Wanariadha Wang'aa jijini London  Battle for Malindi intesifies with CORD leader Raila camping at the Coast By Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 day ago By Fred Kibor | 2 days ago By Lynn Kolongei | 2 days ago By Obare Osinde | 2 days ago How night of fun ended in a day of bullets for woman and nephew