Former Auditor General Edward Ouko has spoken about the frustrations and political pressure he was under while in office.  Ouko, who retired in 2019, said he came under political attacks due to the audit reports he put out and was labelled 'anti-government'.  He spoke on Thursday, May 27 via video link during the National Prayer Breakfast meeting held at Parliament.    Ouko said he found himself in situations where his views were questioned by leaders from various political persuasions, putting him in a position where he had to take a stand. Whatever stand he took, Ouko said, he annoyed one party or the other.   Governors skip senate committee 'grilling' sessions  Governor Rasanga on the spot over use of Covid-19 funds  Auditor General’s red flag on GDC financial management  New law spells tougher rules for financial reporting by State entities "As auditor general, I faced attacks simply for doing my job. I was faced with a petition to this parliament following anonymous letters of half-truths. Sometimes I was labelled a political party sympathiser and taking a courageous stand was not easy," Ouko said.  He said leaders were constantly facing the temptation to be corrupt or to abuse their power. He advised on prayer as a shield against the struggles with sin.  "The temptation of corruption is real, and we face painful choices as leaders. Choosing not to be corrupt is a painful side of leadership. Leaders must constantly be aware of devilish attacks," he said.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! "A leader needs to pray constantly to overcome temptation and pray for wisdom and protection."   Makamishna wa IEBC wahojiwa na kamati ya bunge kuhusu uhasibu kuhusu utoaji tenda  KTN Weekend Prime Full Bulletin 9th August 2015   The Public Accounts Committee reacts to Auditor General's Report By Kamau Muthoni | 4 hours ago By Kamore Maina | 4 hours ago By Josphat Thiongó | 4 hours ago By Mactilda Mbenywe | 4 hours ago Court quashes all senior parastatal appointments made by Uhuru in 2018