Chaos erupted at Mang’u High School tallying centre, Juja constituency after allegations of vote-rigging in the by-elections emerged.  This prompted police to contain the situation by sending away politicians present.  Kiambu Governor James Nyoro, Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro were among the politicians who were kicked out by the police.  It was a disorderly scene with chairs disarranged and papers scattered on the floor as rowdy politicians and their party agents made their way out of the centre.  Kiambu Governor James Nyoro was on record in one of the videos making rounds on Social media demanding a fair vote tallying process.  Juja By-Election: Vote tallying resumes after night of chaos  Tallying centre chaos in Juja as MPs predict UDA win in Rurii  What you need to know about the Juja by-election  Streetwise vendor sets eyes on seat in Juja by-election “We are not fools, and we have made our point,” he said in the video as an unknown voice in the background supported his sentiments.  It is the chaotic behaviour that prompted the police to take charge and restore calm in the constituency’s tallying station.  The tallying process was suspended for some time as politicians, their supporters and party agents were kicked out of the tallying centre under the command of Kiambu County Commander Ali Nuno.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! This comes hours after political parties alleged intimidation in the three by-elections that took place in the country on Tuesday.  The country had by-elections in Bonchari and Juja constituencies as well as Rurii ward.  The three by-elections have been marred by chaos and allegations of intimidations by the police.  Earlier, the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party and ODM had said their candidates and agents were facing intimidation by the police.   David Murathe: I think the next step should be for us to kick Moses out of the party | #NEWSHOUR  The Purge Continues: Jubilee party now targets Kuria & Mbarire, party to revisit cases of 5 Senators  CORD's demonstrations to resume after Lucy Kibaki's burial despite court ruling By Josphat Thiongó | 2 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 2 hours ago By Eric Abuga | 3 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 5 hours ago ODM man Pavel Oimeke wins closely fought Bonchari by-election