Sophy Mwale, founder and chief executive officer of Emploi (PHOTO: James Wanzala)  Covid-19 has caused job losses in many sectors, leaving more Kenyans without livelihoods. However, there are still possibilities of getting a job if you position yourself well.  According to Sophy Mwale, founder and chief executive of Emploi, a career search engine that provides employers with tools to source and manage talent efficiently, one can still secure a job during the Covid-19 era if their skills are aligned to the job market trends. So, what should you do to get that job?  Be more strategic  Focus on quality, not quantity. In the past, job seekers were searching for jobs but now Covid-19 has changed many things and employers are hiring based on the current situation. Job seekers should research on employers who are actively hiring now such as pharmaceuticals, healthcare, technology, government among others. Research on the position being advertised so that you are not conned.  We need a sustainable way to fund post Covid-19 education  Labour market in turmoil as virus cuts over 1.7m jobs  That Sh10 facemask won’t protect you against Covid-19  19 succumb to Covid-19 as Kenya records 369 new cases Tailor-make your CV for the job  Prepare well for that job. Have a good curriculum vitae and cover letter. There is a competition for jobs owing to less opportunities.  You ought to understand the recruiters’ psychology and applicants tracking system, keywords and how to manage gaps on your CV.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! If you had something like a small business you were running while jobless, freelancing, consulting, volunteering, or part-time job, add that to your CV and indicate the value you got from those engagements and how you think it will be key to the job you are applying for.  Positive engagement on social media  This is by following potential employers’ social media accounts, commenting on their posts, sharing and having meaningful engagement with them so that they start noticing your value even before they employ you.  Some companies are posting job opportunities on their social media accounts instead of newspaper advertisement.  Upskilling your knowledge  Get more skills or knowledge that can help you get a job during this time. Let’s say you have worked as a sales executive in a manufacturing company, and the sector has been laying off people but you find that some pharmaceutical firms are hiring.  You now need to orient yourself with other skills you can get along that line by taking an online course related to pharmacy. You can also upgrade your computer knowledge skills.  Prepare well for the Interview  Get advice from a professional on how to prepare for one. Preparation is key because requirements for different organisations vary.  You need to know how to go about this or that job. Avoid the internet because there is information overload. Call a human resource person who can be your friend and he can help you.  Maintain right mental health  This can be achieved by consuming useful media, connecting with people who can help you think constructively and adding value to your life.  During an interview, your mental status can also be questioned. Don’t lose your mind over a temporary setback.   Dr. Mercy Mwangangi talks on Covid-19 vaccine shortage & ARV drugs | CHECKPOINT WITH LINDA OGUTU  Dr. Mercy Mwangangi on Malaria Vaccine & Covid-19 vaccine jitters | CHECKPOINT WITH LINDA OGUTU  Flattening the Curve: Kenya's Covid-19 numbers drop with positivity rate dropping to 16% By Fredrick Obura | 14 hours ago By Peter Theuri | 14 hours ago By Brenda Kerubo and Henry Githaiga | 2 days ago By Christabel Munene | 2 days ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements