Kiambu Governor James Nyoro has denied being at the centre of chaos that saw the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) abruptly halt tallying of votes for Juja parliamentary by-election.  Dr Nyoro was captured in a video clip making rounds on social media is seen exchanging words with security agents at the tallying centre. But he denied being involved in an altercation saying people misinterpreted the cause of his reaction in the clip.  While addressing the Press on Wednesday, he said there was more to his reaction that was captured in the video clip.  The county chief noted that the video did not show the beginning of the incident where he was trying to ask "the commissioners eligible questions."  He said he tried getting answers to the questions but his opponents did not want to hear any of it, hence causing the commotion.  Ruto’s call that gave UDA man victory in poll  Ensure all those behind by-election violence and bribery are punished  President Uhuru Kenyatta furious over recent string of losses  Juja by-election: Kuria-fronted candidate beats Jubilee’s Susan Waititu “The clip does not tell it all. I had asked a simple question to the IEBC officials before our opponents started a shouting match. I was seated and calmly seeking answers on some observations that I had noted,” he said.  Nyoro claimed that not all votes from two polling stations where the Jubilee candidate had a strong showing were counted raising concerns of attempt to rig the by-election.  He claimed that votes from Gachororo and Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology were thrown in the field, raising alarm.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! “We were not involved in any chaos. We all know who are violent in nature. People are busy tarnishing my name for no reason. I condemn in the strongest terms possible the insinuation that I'm a violent person. I have never been violent even during my campaigns," he said.  IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati said he will write to DPP Nordin Haji to prosecute the governor and his team over the chaos.  Chebukati blamed Nyoro for disrupting the tally of votes at Mang'u High School that saw the process resume yesterday morning.  The county chief however said he will wait for conclusion of investigation into the matter and promised to accept the outcome of the by-election.   “We will accept the results and continue working on bettering Kiambu county,” he said.  Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo, who was campaigning for Jubilee's Susan Njeri Waititu also congratulated George Koimburi of little know People's Empowerment Party (PEP) allied to the Deputy President and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria.  "As one who has been honored to serve the people of Kiambu county as former governor and previously as a long serving MP for Juja constituency, i believe that we must now put the divisions of the campaigns behind us and pursue a common goal of uplifting and serving the people," urged Kabogo.  "Hon Njeri, we mounted a spirited fight but the people of Juja decided otherwise. I urge you to unite with Koimburi to pursue the interests of the people of Juja in honor of your late husband and former MP Francis Waititu," he added.      Chaguzi Ndogo: IEBC inaendelea kumalizia maandalizi ya chaguzi ndogo Bonchari na Juja  Limping IEBC: Court ruling sparks uncertainity with IEBC expected to conduct by-elections  "Actual results were given to Kenyans...that is what is in the servers," CS Mucheru on IEBC servers By Patrick Vidija | 2 hours ago By James Munyeki | 5 hours ago By Allan Mungai and Josphat Thiong’o | 11 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 11 hours ago President Uhuru Kenyatta furious over recent string of losses