Lawyer Donald Kipkorir has announced that he will take an extended break from politics. [Courtesy]  Nairobi lawyer and Raila Odinga’s staunch supporter Donald Kipkorir has announced that he will take an extended break from politics.  In a Twitter post on Monday, May 24, Kipkorir, while making the announcement, challenged Kenyan leaders to love the country above self, family and tribe as a precursor for developing a mature political system.  “On reflection, I have taken a sabbatical from Kenya’s politics which has no higher ideals, but driven at its default by personal interests with the support of the poor and illiterate bases,” noted Korir.  US-based law professor and columnist Makau Mutua, however, cautioned the lawyer against taking the decision, saying it might erode the gains made in trying to sanitise Kenya’s politics.  How Lancet founder could walk away with Sh1.9b exit package  Raila has an obligation to save Waiguru — Donald Kipkorir  Jubilee marriage is dead — Donald Kipkorir tells tangatanga  Football Kenya federation poll dilemma: Kipkorir faces election dilemma as exercise is called off again He said the lawyer’s decision was like leaving a football pitch in the dying minutes, just when his team was leading.  Prof Makau pleaded with Korir not to lose hope in Kenya’s politics saying that things will soon change for the better.  “You are a striker and can’t take a “sabbatical” from the game at the 80th minute with your team leading 2-1. If you do, the other side’s mediocre 11 will beat your 10-man team,” said Prof Mutua.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Kipkorir maintained that his decision to take a sabbatical was cast on stone, arguing that the political arena was infested with deceitful individuals, and that he was no longer on being part of the confusion.  On his part, city lawyer Ahmednasir Abdullahi challenged the lawyer to disclose the real reason behind his sudden change of heart.  He alleged that Kipkorir was opting out of politics after realising that the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) and his preferred presidential candidate for the 2022 polls were headed nowhere.   “Have you lost faith in the project? Did you realise the project is doomed? Have you realised that your candidate has zero chance? Is your candidate even running for office? You saw the light,” said Ahmednasir.  Kipkorir’s decision to take a break comes as President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila prepare to appeal the High Court ruling that annulled the BBI.  The President and the ODM leader formed a legal team of six lawyers, led by Attorney General Paul Kihara to try to dismantle the ruling by the High Court judges and allow the BBI reggae to stay on.  In the team to resuscitate the BBI are Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto, former BBI joint secretary Paul Mwanga, members of the BBI committee of experts Prof Ben Sihanya, Prof Kibe Mungai and city lawyer Jackson Awele.   Football Kenya Electoral Board has been faulted for not taking charge of its responsibilities  Bodi ya uchaguzi wa FKF yalaumiwa kwa kutomakinika  Football Kenya Electoral Board has been faulted for not taking charge of its responsibilities By Betty Njeru | 1 hour ago By Moses Nyamori and Lydia Nyawira | 3 hours ago By Kevine Omollo and Harold Odhiambo | 14 hours ago By Eric Abuga | 14 hours ago