Calls for unity as the country grapples with the Covid-19 pandemic dominated the National Prayer Breakfast meeting on Thursday, May 27.  President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto who were both in attendance called out on other leaders to unite the country to win the war against the pandemic.  “There is hope that it is possible to overcome if we pull together. One person can not change Kenya, but together we will make a significant difference,” the President said.  Ruto on his part asked leaders to put behind the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) differences and focus on reviving the economy post the pandemic.  He said the “Tangatanga” rallies had been stopped and so was the “BBI reggae” adding that the underlying issue was the welfare of citizens.  Pass NHIF Bill to improve healthcare, Uhuru tells MPS  DP Ruto finally shows up at event attended by Uhuru  Rumble in the mountain  Nyanza's wish list to Uhuru “We need to come together, discuss how to vaccinate our people and how to move from the pandemic,” Deputy President noted.  The three-hour breakfast meeting brought together the three arms of government (Executive, Legislature and the Judiciary) with Chief Justice Martha Koome making her first appearance at a State function alongside the Judiciary’s Chief Registrar Anne Amadi.  The meeting was marked by special prayers for challenges facing the country: from the Covid-19 pandemic to stability in families, children, people in leadership positions, corruption among other hosts of challenges.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Just before the 18th Annual Prayer Breakfast kicked off, the attendees took a moment of silence in remembrance of the late Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange, chair of the National Prayer organizing committee and former Minister Joseph Nyaga.  Justice Koome said a prayer for the children and families who have lost their loved ones to the virus.  “I pray for children facing challenges of peer pressure, loneliness and isolation and the families that have lost their sources of income, may you grant them peace,” she recited her prayer.  On behalf of the Ministry of Health, CAS Mercy Mwangangi said that it was also beneficial despite the pandemic disrupting livelihoods.  She went on to say that through the pandemic the digital space had expanded and healthcare improved.  Former Auditor General Edward Ouko who attended the event virtually opened up on the frustrations his tenure had faced and urged all the leaders in the country to learn how to manage change especially at a time of crisis.  “By managing change, leaders face resistance some of which result in anonymous and false allegations. But when faced with such circumstances, take it to the Lord in prayer,” he noted.  The event whose theme was a “Hopeful Future” was held at the Senate grounds in Parliament and was open to both physical and virtual attendance with strict Covid-19 guidelines in place.  Last year, the National Prayer Breakfast was held at State House with very few in attendance.  The NPB was first held in 2003 after former President Mwai Kibaki took office with its main purpose being to meet, engage, interact and pray for the nation in the company of fellow leaders from all sectors of society.  The idea was heavily borrowed from the United States of America’s constitution.  Wowino@standardmedia.co.ke        Impeaching Matiang'i: Guns trained at CS Fred Matiang'i with leaders divided over impeachment plans  DP Ruto embarks on a charm offensive in a bid to win over coast region in the 2022 general election  UDA and People's Empowerment Party headed for collision with both eyeing vacant Kiambaa seat By Winfrey Owino | 1 hour ago By Kamau Muthoni | 3 hours ago By Winfrey Owino and Mireri Junior | 6 hours ago By Mactilda Mbenywe | 16 hours ago Vicious power games erupt Mt Kenya