Mombasa Governor Hassan Ali Joho has promised fast-track clearance of the Sh39 million debt owed to Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (KEMSA).  In a meeting with newly-appointed board chair Mary Chao Mwadime, Governor Joho instructed his officers to cut the red tape, review pending issues and expeditiously clear monies owed to the drug agency by end of this financial year.  “I have heard what the chair has said and I am directing that my officers sit down and quickly look into this matter with an aim to resolve it,” said Joho.  He said he was keen to improve healthcare service delivery at public hospitals so that they are at par with private facilities.  Accompanying the chair were Capt (Rtd) Lawrence Wahome, Lincoln Nyaga, Mary Awino Atieno and Dr Josephat Mbuva.  Kwale and Mombasa to reap big from titanium    Nine Syrian sailors held for two years now freed  Maersk set to deploy more ships to Lamu   Mombasa man and sons linked to Liberian smuggling suspect The board chair said the monies paid would enable the authority to meet its financial obligations.  Ms Mwadime explained that Kemsa was ready to engage further by actively listening to the county views and implementing suggestions to improve service delivery.  “I appreciate the opportunity to meet and interact with the governor. We want our collaboration with the county to continue,’’ said Mwadime.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Dr Khadija Shikely, the chief officer for medical services, urged Kemsa to improve its order fill rate.     Washukiwa wa ujambazi waivamia mitaa ya Kisauni Mombasa, watu kadhaa wajeruhiwa kwa panga  Wakulima Samburu kupokea mbegu bila malipo, Uhaba wa maji Hewani, Kuibadilisha Mombasa | MBIU YA KTN  Upelelezi wa Kemsa: Kamati ya bunge la Seneti yataka Daktari Jonah Manjari kupelelezwa By Philip Mwakio | 2 hours ago By Kelvin Karani | 6 hours ago By Joackim Bwana | 1 day ago By Joackim Bwana | 3 days ago Bitter sibling rivalry threatens to split Ruto camp ahead of 2022 poll