Limuru MP Peter Mwathi has been elected to chair the powerful National Administration and Security Committee of the National Assembly.  Members of the committee unanimously endorsed Mwathi to take charge of the team following the death of Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange.  The committee vice chairperson Fatuma Gedi (Wajir), who had declared interest in the seat, withdrew her candidature in favour of Mwathi, citing intervention by ODM leader Raila Odinga.  National Assembly Majority Leader Amos Kimunya on Tuesday said that the Jubilee party had settled on Mwathi to replace Koinange.  Both the late MP and Mwathi come from Kiambu County.  "I know many people have been asking why I did not return my papers. said Gedi. The former prime minister {Raila Odinga] told me that we support Mwathi for the position," said Gedi  "The committee initially wanted one of their own but you know there are a lot of dynamics. Koinange was from Kiambu just like Mwathi," said Gedi.  The vacant seat had attracted a lot of interest from the president's allies and those of Raila.  It is only the security committee and that of the Defence and Foreign Relations chaired by Katoo Ole Metito that were personally appointed by the President after the 2017 general election.  The late Koinange was a close confidant of the president and Mwathi, who had been touted to chair the powerful Budget and Appropriations Committee following the purge of Deputy President William Ruto’s allies, was later dropped in favour of Kieni MP Kanini Kega.  Mwathi’s election today elevates him to President Uhuru’s inner circle from Mt Kenya region.  Kiambaa by-election: Jubilee announces nomination date  Speaker Justin Muturi rules out amendments to BBI Bill  Pay journalists well to enhance media standards, Muturi tells media owners  Koome vetting: Will MPs face up to Uhuru on appointment of 40 judges? The Committee is mandated to investigate, inquire into, and report on all matters relating to security and national administration.  This includes matters to do with the registration of births and deaths and issues to do with refugees.    Take a quick survey and help us improve our website!  Speaker Muturi says National Assembly will convene once a request is formally made  BBI Bill Debate: National Assembly to debate bill before Friday, public participation underway  BBI Journey: Leader of Majority in the National Assembly Amos Kimunya on what next for the BBI By Gerald Mutethia | 12 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 13 hours ago By Moses Nyamori and Kepher Otieno | 13 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 13 hours ago Read The Standard website uninterrupted with no advertisements