Bakers have criticised the government’s move to introduce value-added tax (VAT) on bread and its products.  The Bakers Association of Kenya (Bake) says the tax is inhumane, considering the economic downturn the sector has suffered since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic last year. It argues that introducing the tax will deny majority of Kenyans access to quality food.  “The introduction of 16 per cent VAT on this commodity will further increase the average price of a 400g loaf of bread by approximately Sh8, making it unaffordable to the majority of Kenyans,” said Bake in a letter to the National Treasury. “This will be in violation of the fundamental right to affordable food.”   The planned tax comes a few months after manufacturers increased the price of bread by Sh5 following a jump in global wheat prices.  The price of bread has remained stable over the years due to zero-rating on tax, with manufacturers competing for the small margins buoyed by economies of scale.  How to unleash the power of corporate innovation  Israel firm among four start-ups to pilot smart solutions at Konza  Harold's empty pockets save him from divorce  Thinking of food security? Time to consider public-private partnership The government, however, argues that it needs to find ways to support its 2021-2022 budget. Treasury has estimated that it will borrow about Sh1.5 trillion by July.   However, most of the revenue-collection measures highlighted in the Finance Bill, 2021 are generally aimed at deepening the tax bracket rather than widening it.  The key targets are fuel, alcoholic drinks, betting, cigarettes and financial transactions, with bread and milk formula slapped with 16 per cent VAT.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website!    Sputnik Vaccine Row: Government banned private importation with nearly 74,000 doses in the country  Private hospitals in Mombasa begin vaccinating frontline workers as country fights its third wave  Kamau Thugge has challenged private companies to develop proper risk management  By Macharia Kamau | 3 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 3 hours ago By Dominic Omondi | 3 hours ago By Frankline Sunday | 5 hours ago Who failed Uhuru Kenyatta?