Jubilee National Vice-Chairperson David Murathe is still in office despite reports indicating otherwise in social media. [File, Standard]  Jubilee Party has announced that David Murathe has not resigned as party national vice-chairperson.  In a statement released on Wednesday, May 26 by party communication director Albert Memusi, the party termed false reports circulating on social media that Murathe had quit.  “It has come to our attention that there are reports circulating on social media alleging that our vice-chair, Murathe. We would like to clarify that such reports are false,” read the statement.  Memusi said Murathe was still the party’s able vice-chair and continues to carry out his duties in that capacity, working diligently to fulfil his mandate as provided for in the party constitution.  Unrest in major parties as Uhuru succession nears  Tough Kimunya finally resigns to fate as Jubilee learns tough lesson  Persons with Albinism slam Murathe over offensive TV remarks  Murathe: Uhuru still Mt Kenya spokesman The party urged members of the public to treat any documents, reports or communication purporting to convey his resignation with the contempt they deserve.  Memusi said any changes in the Jubilee Party leadership will be communicated through the official Party organs, as is the norm, and as is articulated in the Jubilee Party Constitution.  The reports emerged after President Uhuru Kenyatta reportedly made a phone call to top jubilee officials including Murathe and read him the riot act over the party’s loss in the two recent by-elections held in the Mt Kenya region.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Leaders have also called for party’s leadership changes following the Juja constituency and Rurii Ward by-elections.  In Juja, Jubilee candidate Susan Waititu managed 5,764 votes, losing to People's Empowerment Party (PEP) candidate George Koimburi who garnered 12,159 votes.  In Rurii Ward, UDA candidate Francis Muraya beat Jubilee's Peter Thinji.  Murathe in January 2019 resigned his post as Jubilee Party vice-chairperson, saying he could not sit with Deputy President William Ruto in the party’s National Executive Council (NEC).  The surprise resignation came on a day some Jubilee MPs demanded he either withdraw his utterances against the DP or be ousted from the party’s top position.  In May 2020, Murathe made a U-turn about his resignation saying President Kenyatta did not accept his resignation letter.   “I wrote a resignation letter to President [Kenyatta] but I have not received a response from the President indicating whether my intention was accepted or declined. This means that I’m still the party’s vice-chairperson and I will continue discharging my duties and responsibilities in the ruling party,” he said.   President Kenyatta on the spot over mini polls after Jubilee lost in 3 by-elections | HOUSE OF CARDS  UDA and People's Empowerment Party headed for collision with both eyeing vacant Kiambaa seat  David Murathe says Senator Omanga will face the same fate as Senator Mwaura By Benard Sanga | 7 hours ago By Patric Beja | 16 hours ago By Nzau Musau | 1 day ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 1 day ago