Rurii ward by-election UDA candidate Muraya Githaiga celebrates with his supporters after he was announced the winner at IEBC tallying center at Rurii PCEA church in Nyandarua County on May 18, 2021.[Kipsang Joseph,Standard]  The United Democratic Alliance (UDA) has unveiled candidates for Kiambaa constituency and Muguga ward by-elections, both in Kiambu County slated for July 15.  John Njuguna Wanjiku will fly the party's flag in Kiambaa, while Kamau Thumbi will face off with others in Muguga.  The two were unveiled yesterday at UDA's headquarters, a party associated with Deputy President William Ruto.  While handing the pair their respective certificates, party secretary general Veronica Maina told them to go and root for the party. "This is a good ticket. It is one of the best options in the market today for any politician," said Maina.  Aspirants protest Jubilee's decision to conduct nominations by way of interviews  UDA rolls out major drive to list aspirants  Ruto has last laugh as Kimunya thrashed in Rurii Ward  Streetwise vendor sets eyes on seat in Juja by-election She made reference to UDA's victory in Rurii ward and linked it to Peoples' Empowerment Party (PEP) which clinched Juja parliamentary seat through George Koimburi.  Both Njuguna and Thumbi exuded confidence in taking up the seats. "This is our chance to make our statement that Kiambaa is a hustler-nation stronghold," said Njuguna.  "I would like to thank UDA for playing it fair and my competitors for their support," said Thumbi.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Among politicians who attended the launch included Meru Senator Mithika Linturi, Kikuyu lawmaker Kimani Ichung'wa and his Mathira colleague Rigathi Gachagua. MP-elect Koimburi was also present.  The Tangatanga-allied MPs chastised the government over the handling of Juja and Bonchari by-elections, and called for a fair process.  "We do not expect our competitors to misuse state agencies as they did in Juja, Rurii and Bonchari," said Ichung'wa.  "We look forward to a contest full of decorum and done on issues," said Gachagua.  "UDA believes that power belongs to the people. The opportunity that has arisen in Kiambaa and Muguga is an opportunity for people to make a decision on whom they want to delegate their power," said Linturi.  bowino@standardmedia.co.ke      MP Didmus Barasa taking a sabbatical from active politics in Western and hints at leaving Tangatanga  A family in Nakuru seeks justice for the murder of their last born son.  US missionary jailed for 40 years for sexually assaulting children at a Children's Home in Kenya By Josphat Thiong'o | 3 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 1 day ago By Fidelis Kabunyi | 1 day ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 1 day ago