President Uhuru Kenyatta landed in Kisumu on Sunday afternoon to launch a number of flagship projects ahead of the 59th Madaraka Day celebrations on Tuesday.  The Head of State received a rousing welcome from Nyanza leaders led by ODM leader Raila Odinga and Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong'o.  Raila arrived at the airport earlier and waited for the President for close to 30 minutes before he jetted into the lakeside city. The president arrived aboard a Kenya Air Force plane.  Uhuru later flew to Siaya to launch projects in Raila's turf.   Upon arrival in Kisumu, the President signed the guest book and retreated with Raila to the VIP holding room where they chatted for about 15 minutes before leaving.  Madaraka Day still on at Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium, Kibicho  Don't intimidate my supporters, Obado tells critics in Nyanza  Venue for Madaraka Day fete unknown as Kisumu Stadium left  High expectations and anxiety as Kisumu readies to welcome Uhuru The President shook hands with Nyanza MPs led by Seme legislator James Nyikal.  Others were Jared Okello (Nyando), Millie Odhiambo (Mbita), Rosa Buyu (Kisumu), Paul Abuor (Rongo), Shakeel Shabir (Kisumu East) and Nyongo who were at the airport to welcome the President.  Cabinet Secretary Raphael Tuju and East Africa Community and Regional Development Chief Administrative Secretary Ken Obura and Nyanza Regional Commissioner Magu Mutindika were present.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Crowds of onlookers lined up the routes leading to the airport to wait for the President arrival. In the industrial area, the Kenya Railways flag was erected on the way.  Uhuru is slated to launch the metre gauge railway from Kisumu to Butere and the Sh450 million Uhuru Business Park.   Oginga Odinga, Jomo Kenyatta and Achieng Oneko streets were closed temporarily in the afternoon as the county used the firefighting engine to wash and mop the streets.  kotieno@standardmedia.co.ke       Venue of Madaraka Day celebrations could be changed following fears of possible spike in Covid cases  Leaders from Nyanza region hold meeting with President Kenyatta ahead of Madaraka day celebrations  Mauaji Kisumu: Mhudumu wa bodaboda amuuwa kijana na kujisalimisha kwa polisi huko Nyalunya, Kisumu By James Omoro | 8 hours ago By Kepher Otieno | 18 hours ago By James Omoro | 1 day ago By Kepher Otieno | 1 day ago Grab a copy of the latest Standard for only 10 shillings & access the last 10 editions for free