The new Green Park Bus terminus designated by NMS at the Nairobi Railways Club. [David Gichuru, Standard]  The Nairobi Metropolitan Services is set to carry another test run at the Green Park Bus Terminus tomorrow, Friday.  It will be the second of such an exercise, coming one month after its first one.  NMS is looking at commissioning the terminus soon, for drop-offs and pick-ups of passengers.  Last month, NMS carried out a similar test run to assess the possibility of implementing the gradual removal of matatus from the Central Business District (CBD) to the new terminal.  Nairobi approves Sh12b budget to settle pending bills  NMS closes public toilets in Nairobi CBD  You will have to do with your local hospital as KNH plans to scrap outpatient services   MCAs award themselves extra Sh2 billion in new budget NMS Director-General Mohamed Badi said the exercise was necessary to assess the level of preparedness ahead of commissioning of the facility.  The terminus will serve PSVs plying the Ngong and Lang’ata Road routes, which currently operate from the Nairobi Railway Station.  Matatus also plying the Kawangware, Kikuyu, Kibera, Rongai and Kiserian will terminate at the Green Park bus terminus.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! A traffic officer directs vehicles inside Green Park Terminus. [Denish Ochieng, Standard]  In April, NMS said commuters will use the Non-Motorised Transport Corridors (NMT) which have both cycleways and walkways to and from the CBD.  The Mohamed Badi-led body will also be charging a token fee on traders selling their merchandise at the terminal, or using advertisement space.  NMS Transport Director Michael Ochieng said the money will go into maintaining the Sh200 million bus terminus.   NMS ikishirikiana na ofisi ya msemaji wa serikali yazindua rasmi utoaji wa chanjo ya Korona, Nairobi  Birth of NMS: Thursday marks one year since NMS inception which now runs key functions in Nairobi  NMS moves to protect iconic Fig Tree, located along Waiyaki Way in Nairobi By Micah Nyandoro and Brian Okoth | 5 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 16 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 23 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 2 days ago Vicious power games erupt Mt Kenya