The tragic fight over woman occurred in Naivasha Town on Thursday, May 20. [File, Standard]  Police in Naivasha, Nakuru County have arrested an 18-year-old boy accused of killing a 32-year-old man during fight over a woman.  The teenager is alleged to have slit the throat of his love rival on Thursday night, May 20. The incident occurred at the deceased’s home in Sanctuary Estate on Moi South Lake Road.  The tricenarian is alleged to have lured the boy into his house, where he (deceased) confronted the teenager over allegations that the boy was secretly seeing his 32-year-old wife.  The man is said to have promised the polytechnic student a job, resulting in the meeting, which ended tragically.  Popular socialite shot, injured in suspected love triangle  Sorrow as man is killed in love triangle  Man kills friend over love chats with wife  Policeman shoots dead girlfriend, survives suicide attempt The now-deceased, Dennis Kioko, is alleged to have demanded to know why the teenager was having an affair with his wife. A fight, consequently, erupted.  It was during the melee, that Kioko reached for a kitchen knife and attempted to stab the boy. The teenager, however, overpowered the 32-year-old and snatched the weapon from him.  “I accidentally stabbed him in the neck while attempting to defend myself,” the suspect told police.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Peterson Njoroge, an elder in the area, expressed concern at the rising cases of relationship-caused deaths in Naivasha Town.  “In the last one year, at least five residents of Naivasha Town have been killed in love triangle cases. There’s an underlying problem in the society, which must be addressed urgently,” he said.  Naivasha OCPD Samuel Waweru told The Standard that the suspect, who had sustained injuries during the fight, was taken to hospital, and would, thereafter, be arraigned.  Kioko’s body was taken to Naivasha Sub-County Referral Hospital morgue.   LOVE GONE SOUR: Nyeri woman stabbed to death by her lover  KTN Weekend Prime Full Bulletin 26th February,2016  Crime of Passion: Jilted woman chops off man’s private parts By Reuters | 3 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 12 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 12 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 23 hours ago Grab a copy of the latest Standard for only 10 shillings & access the last 10 editions for free