Concern is rising in Garissa after a citizen was reportedly shot dead by the OCS Garissa County Michael Munyalo Wambua on Saturday night in DRC area along Bula Sheikh Road.  Speaking to The Standard, the deceased’s wife Stellah Makena aged 21 confirmed that the husband was shot dead after a confrontation ensued at the DRC Club and he, Kimathi Moriss Kaliunga, 28 was fatally shot at the back while crossing the road.  In a quick rejoinder, the Garissa County Commander Ranson Lolmodoni confirmed the incident saying they have already visited the scene, documented statements by witnesses and the matter is now in the hands of DCIO.  "We have not turned away anyone as you are claiming. We attended the scene and in fact, it is our officers who took the body to the morgue. So we are waiting for the next of kin to come to identify the body".  Bodies of men allegedly thrown in river recovered  Top police officer in hospital after collapsing at his Nairobi home  Charles who? The anatomy of a great political silencing  Senior DCI officer shoots dead security guard in Kayole The body of the deceased is at the Garissa Mortuary awaiting postmortem.  This incident comes days after Embakasi DCI boss Simon Mutia Mwongela shot dead a night guard in Kayole, Nairobi identified as Lapaja Topiwo, 23, after an altercation at the Night Square Hotel in the area,  The senior superintendent of police is expected in court on Monday 17th to be charged with murder after spending the weekend at the Kileleshwa police cells.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website!  Jinxed Station? Uproar over Kiptagich Police Station cited for poor relations with the public  Police holding suspect accused of allegedly raping & assaulting a 24-year-old girl, Velvine Nungari  DP Ruto calls out police for partisanship, accuses service of being used | PRESS REVIEW By Patrick Vidija | 10 days ago By Michael Saitoti | 14 days ago By Bakari Ang’ela | 21 days ago By Winfrey Owino | 25 days ago The 40 minutes that saved my life