The fake money, in dollar, pound and Kenyan shilling denominations, had been neatly arranged and hidden in nylon bags. [Courtesy]  Police in Ruiru, Kiambu County have recovered Sh362 million in counterfeit currency and fake gold suspected to be owned by three Cameroonian nationals.  The possessions were on Monday evening, May 3, found in a house under construction on the Ruiru-Kiambu Road.  The fake money – in dollar, pound and Kenyan shilling denominations – had been neatly arranged and hidden in nylon bags.  The Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) officers nabbed the three suspects in the incomplete house.  Another Kiambu woman allegedly killed by lover  Analysis: Why Ruiru small arms factory is good for Kenya  Juja land owners to be issued with title deeds  Ruiru now eyes spot as Kenya's next city Paulin Francis, 44, Njikam Omar, 37 and Jacob Kentong, 31, were taken to Ruiru Police Station, where they are being held as investigations continue.  Ruiru DCI boss, Justus Ombati, said he suspects the three have been using the fake money to buy goods, and are, thereafter, given legitimate currency in the form of balance.  Ombati says they are investigating where the fake money originated from.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Police also recovered 150kgs of fake gold, a dollar photocopying machine, passports and liquid substances taken for examination.  In 2019, police in the area recovered tens of millions of shillings in fake currency from a group.  The money was allegedly being used in a con scheme, in which the fake currency owners would call people randomly and lie to them they had won a windfall. They would, thereafter, ask the “winners” to send money so that they receive their cash prizes.  The case is still in court.   An official of a ranching company in Githunguri was shot dead Monday night  Wakfu wa Wings To Fly yahimiza jamii kufadhili wanafunzi waliokosa karo  Two men arrested with 693 million Dollars’ worth of fake money in Nairobi By James Munyeki | 5 hours ago By James Munyeki | 1 day ago By Boniface Gikandi | 2 days ago By Boniface Gikandi | 2 days ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements