Wreckage of the helicopter that crashed after dropping ODM leader Raila Odinga at Kudho Primary School in Gem, Siaya County on May 30, 2021. [Courtesy]  A chopper that had flown ODM leader Raila Odinga to a function attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta crashed as it tried to take off.  The helicopter had dropped the former Prime Minister at Kudho Primary School in Gem, Siaya County on Sunday afternoon when it went down.  According to Raila’s spokesperson Dennis Onyango, the helicopter, Bell 407 registration 5Y-PSM, had dropped Raila and four others at the venue and was trying to create space for other choppers when it crashed.  He said the ODM leader was safe and had left the plane by the time of the incident.  President Uhuru Kenyatta arrives in Kisumu  Don't intimidate my supporters, Obado tells critics in Nyanza  The political calculus of succession: Who will get it right?  Final touches as Kisumu readies to welcome Uhuru “The former PM is safe following an incident in which a chopper that had flown him from Kisumu to Gem in Siaya County crashed shortly after dropping him and his entourage of four people,” Onyango said in a statement.  Onyango said the pilot, and those who were on board escaped with minor injuries.  According to the chopper’s pilot Julius Mwambanga, the helicopter crashed as he tried to take off after dropping Raila who had accompanied President Kenyatta to the area to commission various projects.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Mwambanga said the helicopter went down and overturned on the left side immediately after taking off.  “The chopper was about five metres from the ground when it went down.  The chopper’s main and tail rotors were damaged.  Pictures taken at the scene show the chopper came to rest on its right side and "all major structural components" were in the immediate area of the main wreckage.  The cause of the crash is yet to be established.   pic.twitter.com/31DYkHGri2 — Raila Odinga (@RailaOdinga) May 30, 2021  What does the court's verdict on BBI portend for the three top leaders, Uhuru, Ruto and Raila?  ODM leader Raila Odinga has termed as unfortunate, the ruling on BBI by a five judge bench  Raila asema kuwa kundi la BBI litakata rufaa kuhusu uamuzi wa mahakama kuharamisha mchakato wa BBI By Jacinta Mutura and Stephen Nzioka | 6 hours ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 6 hours ago By Macharia Munene | 6 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 10 hours ago How night of fun ended in a day of bullets for woman and nephew