The Siaya-Bondo Water supply and sanitation project offices on May 30, 2021. [Vivianne Wandera, Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta is set to launch the Siaya Bondo Water supply and sanitation project through the Ministry of Water, Sanitation and Irrigation.  The project that is in the package of the last mile connectivity project under Kenya Towns Sustainable Water Supply and Sanitation Programme (KTSWSSP) was financed by the African Development Bank and Government of Kenya at a cost of Sh.2.4 billion.  The project is meant to improve access, availability and sustainability of water supply and wastewater services in the towns of Siaya and Bondo.  It will also serve Siaya, Bondo, Yala towns and Kogelo village. It further entails the rehabilitation and expansion of existing water infrastructure at Sidindi Malanga, and the transmission to Siaya and Bondo through Kogelo village.  President Uhuru mourns former MP Kalembe Ndile  Uhuru obeys court, revokes Jemator's nomination to IEBC panel  Final touches as Kisumu readies to welcome Uhuru  Uhuru unveils major plans for Nyanza ahead of visit The last mile connectivity project started in January 2021 at a cost of Sh.265 million and will be completed in January next year.  A representative of the Ministry of Water said a survey was done before the project started to find out if locals would be willing to pay to get undisrupted water services in their homes.  The project targets to serve 201,258 people with a steady water supply and 51,060 people with sanitation services by 2040.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! The expected outcomes of the project are to reduce non-revenue water from 40 per cent to 20 per cent, catalyze commercial activities, drive economic growth and increase end-user connectivity to 150,000 new consumers and customer base for the Siaya Bondo Water Supply and Sanitation Project.  The construction works on the project started in November 2013 and was substantially completed in December 2018.    Impeaching Matiang'i: Guns trained at CS Fred Matiang'i with leaders divided over impeachment plans  President Suluhu will on Tuesday begin a two-day State visit on the invitation of President Kenyatta  Kenya joins the World in marking Labour Day as workers hope for wage increment By Kepher Otieno | 43 minutes ago By Vivianne Wandera | 3 hours ago By James Omoro | 8 hours ago By Weldon Kipkemoi | 18 hours ago How night of fun ended in a day of bullets for woman and nephew