First Lady Margaret Kenyatta (left) and her Burundian counterpart Angeline Ndayubaha.  First Lady Margaret Kenyatta and her Burundian counterpart Angeline Ndayubaha will have a series of events in Kisumu ahead of Madaraka Day celebrations on Tuesday.  They will be joined by Opposition leader Raila Odinga's wife Ida and Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong'o's, Dorothy.  Yesterday, State House spokesperson Kanze Dena said First Lady Margaret Kenyatta will arrive tomorrow with the President.    Final touches as Kisumu readies to welcome Uhuru  Retired teacher finally fulfills her dream with electric cookers  FACT CHECK: The truth behind Sh498m Jomo Kenyatta Stadium in Kisumu  Nairobi-Kisumu passenger train services back on track after 16 years Uhuru will be received by ODM leader Raila Odinga and a host of Cabinet Secretaries led by Interior and National Co-ordination CS Fred Matiang'i.  The President will be in Kisumu for a three-day visit that will see him launch development projects and preside over Madaraka Day.  Uhuru is to receive Burundian President Evariste Ndayishimiye on Monday.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Dena did not, however, specify the activities the First ladies will be engaged in.  She told the press in Kisumu that details of the activities would be unveiled to the media before the functions on Monday.   ''The Burundians will be here also to scout for business openings,'' said  Dena.  This is the first time that Burundi's President will visit Kenya after his inauguration ceremony on June 18, 2020.  Ndayishimiye won the election after the sudden death of President Pierre Nkurunziza.   President Ndayishimiye who is slated to be the chief guest during Madaraka Day will also join President Kenyatta during his tour of the various National Government projects in Kisumu County and the Nyanza region.  Burundi partners with Kenya in trade, security, education, agriculture and energy.  In 2011, both countries signed a comprehensive bilateral agreement to promote development and technology transfer in agriculture, livestock and fisheries development between them.      Leaders from Nyanza region hold meeting with President Kenyatta ahead of Madaraka day celebrations  Viongozi kutoka eneo la Nyanza wakutana na Rais Uhuru Kenyatta katika ikulu ya Nairobi | MBIU YA KTN  Mauaji Kisumu: Mhudumu wa bodaboda amuuwa kijana na kujisalimisha kwa polisi huko Nyalunya, Kisumu By James Omoro | 1 hour ago By Kepher Otieno | 4 hours ago By Kevine Omollo  | 8 hours ago By Erick Abuga | 9 hours ago Uhuru unveils major plans for Nyanza ahead of visit