Central Organization of Trade Unions (COTU) Secretary-General Francis Atwoli says the Covid-19 pandemic has plunged millions of workers into joblessness.  Speaking during Labour Day Celebrations at State House, Nairobi on May 1, 2021, in an event attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta, Atwoli said workers have little to celebrate as the pandemic has impacted jobs and affected livelihoods.  Lauding President Kenyatta’s economic stimulus measures, Atwoli said the interventions reduced the adverse effects of the coronavirus crisis on workers.  “As COTU, an umbrella body of workers in the country, we will work closely with your Government to make sure that we steer our economy to higher heights in order to address the job losses that we have all witnessed as a result of this pandemic,” he said.  Addressing how Covid-19 negatively impacted the agricultural sector, regarded as Kenya’s tax backbone, Atwoli said access to markets was key in stimulating production, and cushioning workers and industries from Covid-related trade losses.  Murkomen: Uhuru insincere in easing Covid restrictions  Zoned-counties travel restrictions lifted  Youth must embrace unions – Atwoli   How the pandemic has put Kenya through a two-year labour pain “I thank you for having made a budget allocation during this time of Covid-19 to the agricultural sector by ensuring that there is cargo space for farmers’ exports,” said Atwoli.  Atwoli said a joint partnership entered into by the Federation of Kenyan Employers, COTU and the National Government ensured workers’ job security wasn’t threatened.  “When we realised that Covid-19 was a big problem, these organisations developed and signed a tripartite agreement which provided for job security and assured worried workers that they will not lose their jobs," said Atwoli.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Explaining how labour movements influenced today’s worker rights, relations and wage advancement, Atwoli said the Kenyan workers appreciate efforts by leaders who put Kenyans’ interests first.  “After having this day and several trade unions, we still have a duty to ensure that workers are protected. We have employers who are still hell-bent on maximising profits without due regard to what workers do at their various places of work," he said.  The veteran trade unionist warned that corruption has become a threat to national development and service delivery.  “It is through corruption that we cannot obtain strategic medicine and quality medical cover in our public hospitals,” said Atwoli.  The COTU boss appealed to the president to intensify the war on corruption and tackle the vice head-on.  “In this world of digital and e-commerce, we appeal to you not to get tired. Kenyan workers support you. Unless we tackle corruption, we will not take off as a nation,” said Atwoli.      COTU Boss Francis Atwoli re-elected for a fifth term in office, he will serve for another 5 years  Francis Atwoli ashauri serikali kutumia mikopo kupiga jeki biashara za wananchi Kenya  Francis Atwoli lashes out at CS Mutahi Kagwe over letter to counties about remitting county due By Mireri Junior | 3 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi | 4 hours ago By Isaiah Gwengi | 5 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 5 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements