ODM officials led by Karachuonyo Constituency Joshua Maena (third-right), address journalists at a Homa Bay town hotel. [James Omoro, Standard]  Karachuonyo constituency ODM officials have told political leaders to end clan politics in Homa Bay County.  Addressing journalists at a Homa Bay hotel on Sunday, ODM chairpersons from the six wards in Karachuonyo Constituency and the constituency chair have denounced clan politics if the county is to elect a good governor.  The leaders were speaking after claims by some contenders that the Rachuonyo clan which comprises Karachuonyo, Kasipul and Kabondo-Kasipul constituencies will decide who becomes the next Homa Bay governor in 2022 because of their numerical advantage.  They argued that Rachuonyo clan has more voters than other clans in the county.   Businessman donates relief food to flood victims in Homa Bay  All primary school pupils in Karachuonyo constituency to get shoes  Businessman donates relief food to flood victims in Homa Bay  All primary school pupils in Karachuonyo constituency to get shoes  Kendu Bay Town Ward chairman Justus Osumba said the narrative is outdated and divisive, adding that cannot the county has eight constituencies.  He argued that three constituencies alone cannot make a candidate win a gubernatorial seat.  Osumba said there is a need for Rachuonyo clan to welcome gubernatorial candidates from other constituencies.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! “We are only three constituencies hence our sons and daughters who want to vie for the seat cannot succeed without the support of voters from other constituencies,” Osumba said.  The senior citizen said clannism will deny the county good candidates for the County top seat, adding that all candidates are welcomed to the larger Karachuonyo region.  “All those with desirable leadership qualities to ascend to power should do their campaigns across the county without discrimination,” said Osumba.  Karachuonyo Constituency Joshua Maena said politics of incitement and discrimination had been overtaken by events.  Outsider tag  He said there is a need for politics of inclusivity to enable Homa Bay to get a good governor after the 2022 General Election.  “Let us stop discriminating people. This type of politics is obsolete,” said Maena.  He cautioned leaders against branding others as 'outsiders' during politics to achieve their selfish political interests.  “You find a man who has lived in an area since childhood is branded an outsider when he ventures into politics. Segregation is wrong,” Odero said.  Some of the political leaders who are eyeing the county gubernatorial include Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata, Woman Rep Gladys Wanga, County Secretary Isaiah Ogwe, businessman Jared Otieno, former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, KUPPET Secretary General Akello Misori, ODM National Chairman John Mbadi and politician Luis Otieno.  They want to succeed Governor Cyprian Awiti who is serving his second term.   By Isaiah Gwengi | 1 day ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 1 day ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 2 days ago By James Omoro | 2 days ago Read The Standard website uninterrupted with no advertisements