Eldoret City Marathon, which was suspended in March in line with COVID-19 guidelines issued by President Uhuru Kenyatta will be staged on June 6.  The local organising committee on Thursday announced the third edition's new date in a press conference in Eldoret town.  Last year, the race was cancelled as a result of restrictions to curb the spread of COVID-19.. The race’s main sponsor, Uasin Gishu County government, said the rescheduled marathon will be a world class event.  Governor Jackson Mandago said the race will take place under strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols and asked athletes who had registered before March 26, when sporting events were suspended to prepare for the competition.  Why Kenyan boxing has taken a knockout blow  Okall upbeat of success with Titans in Uganda despite debut loss  Weightlifter poised to become first transgender Olympian  Top Kenyan referee to officiate in Russia  Obiri and Gidey ready for 3000m showdown in Doha Mandago said the 5km fun race will also be staged in the Sunday race.  “The new date will be on June 6. We are inviting all athletes who had earlier registered (for the race) to turn up next month. Registration is still ongoing for those who had not registered,” Mandago said.  Eldoret Marathon race director Moses Tanui said the LOC is ready to stage the race during the new date.  The two-time Boston Marathon winner thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for reviewing the COVID-19 guidelines to allow sporting events to take place.  “We are ready. We have marked the route and our electronic timing system is in place. We are only waiting for the big day,” Tanui said  At least 11 foreign athletes including six Ethiopians had registered for the Eldoret City Marathon by Thursday morning, and are expected to line up in the race, according to organisers.  The Standard Group PLC is the race's media partner.   President Suluhu will on Tuesday begin a two-day State visit on the invitation of President Kenyatta  Government sets aside Ksh 7 billion for vaccines to acquire two different types of Covid-19 vaccines  Dr. Mercy Mwangangi talks on Covid-19 vaccine shortage & ARV drugs | CHECKPOINT WITH LINDA OGUTU  Dr. Mercy Mwangangi on Malaria Vaccine & Covid-19 vaccine jitters | CHECKPOINT WITH LINDA OGUTU  Kirinyaga county bar owners demand 50 percent waiver and Covid 19 vaccine prioritization By World Athletics | 14 hours ago By Paul Ochieng and Gerald Lwande | 2 days ago By Jonathan Komen and Dennis Okeyo | 2 days ago By Robin Toskin | 3 days ago