Governors from Western skipped the County Public Accounts and Investment Committee (CPAIC) of the Senate grilling sessions for the second day on Tuesday.  The committee, led by Migori Senator Ochillo Ayacko, are in Kakamega town to interrogate governors Wycliffe Oparanya, Patrick Khaemba (Trans Nzoia), Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma), Sospeter Ojaamong’ (Busia) and Wilber Ottichilo (Vihiga).  They are expected to answer questions over audit queries of their accounts emanating from the Auditor General’s reports for financial years 2018/19 and 2019/2020.  But Oparanya and Khaemba, who were expected to appear before the committee on Monday and yesterday, gave the sittings a wide berth forcing the senators to cancel the exercise at the eleventh hour.  Seats reserved for the governors at the Invest and Grow Sacco Plaza hall were unoccupied by 9.30am yesterday. Later, the committee told journalists that Khaemba skipped the session because some county executive officers from Trans Nzoia had been exposed to coronavirus.  Governor Rasanga on the spot over use of Covid-19 funds  Auditor General’s red flag on GDC financial management  New law spells tougher rules for financial reporting by State entities  Rebecca Miano: The Iron Lady of power sector on life at the top Governor Oparanya had written to the committee, through the Clerk of the Senate, asking the team to defer the meeting with him “until we receive the certificate for the Financial Year ended 30th June 2019.” The letter is dated May 7.  In the letter, Oparanya explains that his administration did not receive a certificate for the Financial Year 2018/2019 and that the county executive has no documents to respond to as regards to the submission of responses and the relevant supporting documentation.  “Once the documents are received, the county Executive will prepare the responses as well as supporting documentation for onward submission to your office and, therefore, a meeting will be arranged by yourselves appropriately,” reads the letter in part.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! A section of the committee members appeared to question excuses being given by the governors but The Standard could not independently establish whether the county chiefs were giving excuses to avoid appearing before the committee.  Governor Wangamati is expected to appear before the committee today while Ojaamong will appear on Thursday. Dr Ottichilo will meet the Senate team on Friday.  The committee was also expected to inspect development projects across the five counties before wrapping up its tour of Western.  Ordinarily, the Senate committee would have summoned the governors to appear before it in Nairobi.  But governors have in the past complained of unnecessary expenditures during such summonses.       Siasa za ODM: Gavana wa Kaunti ya Kakamega, Wycliffe Oparanya anataka aungwe mkono  Raila could face Oparanya and his counterpart Joho in battle for ODM's presidential ticket in 2022  Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya declares his interest to vie for presidency in 2022 By Grace Ng'ang'a | 1 hour ago By Moses Nyamori and Jacob Ng’etich | 5 hours ago By Standard Team | 6 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 6 hours ago Fatou Bensouda: ‘Big man’ Ruto gave witnesses kickbacks