The flooded Kenya Power's Nairobi West substation. [Courtesy]  Residents living in over 10 estates in Nairobi will be in darkness for long hours following heavy rains experienced in the City on Thursday, May 13.    According to a statement by Kenya Power, people living in Nairobi West, South C, parts of Lang’ata, parts of Mbagathi way, Dam estate, Civil Servants’ Estate, Five Star Estate, parts of Lower Hill and environs will experience a power outage.  In a statement posted on social media, Kenya Power said the outage is as a result of flooding in its Nairobi West substation after the Nairobi dam burst its banks.  Kenya Power indicated that they switched off power supply to the affected areas as a precautionary measure.  Kenya Power eyes Sh2b from reduced illegal connections  Lighting up rural Kenya: Energy agency to double county investments   Kenya Power risks being fined for delayed connection  New rules to force power suppliers to pay for connection delays The company's engineer Charles Mwaura has, however, assured the affected residents that their team will restore power by the end of today [May 14].  Since Thursday night, photos of submerged buildings and vehicles reportedly from the affected estates have emerged on Twitter.  The Kenya Meteorological Department has announced that rainfall will reduce between Friday, May 15 and Saturday, May 16.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! On Thursday alone, seven people were killed in separate estates in Nairobi following a heavy downpour.  Four bodies of bodaboda riders were recovered in Kibra while three other people were killed in Mukuru Kwa Reuben.   Two people die following a heavy downpour in Marigat, Baringo County  Nairobi caught off guard once again by heavy rains  Watu wawili waponea chupuchupu wakijaribu kurekebisha mitambo ya umeme Nakuru By Mireri Junior | 3 hours ago By Peter Muiruri | 6 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 1 day ago By Pkemoi Ng'enoh | 1 day ago Ruto, Atwoli differ on BBI shock ruling as COTU boss ‘demands’ action against 5 judges