Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) investigators probing alleged embezzlement of Sh55 million have raided the Nyandarua County Governments head offices in Ol Kalou.  The detectives carted away documents related to the county branding tender by a company allegedly linked to the son of a senior county official.  The anti-graft agency central region manager, Charles Rasugu said the raid targeted Governor Francis Kimemia's office and that of the department of finance.  "They took some documents from the governor's secretary and the finance office to help us crack the case that emanated from the tender issued in 2019," Rasugu said, adding that they were acting on a complaint was filed at the agency.  He said the probe might be extended to other offices but at the moment, the two offices were key in their investigations.  EACC seeks to seize Governor Okoth Obado's Sh73m assets  Terror suspects moved to city for further probe  What’s hot in The Nairobian from last week  Juja aspirant to appear in court today Rasugu said none had been arrested so far but if anyone refused to cooperate action would be taken.  "Unless they fail to cooperate, that is when we will take action," he told The Standard on phone.  Rasugu said the probe was also about a county investment forum function that never was despite the money being spent.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! In 2019, Ndegwa Wahome, the then Speaker of the  Nyndarua County assembly, blew the whistle claiming that some county officials had intimated that the local government had held an investors conference at Sh13 million in March with the money stashed in private accounts.  “This money is in private accounts and unless these people voluntarily return it, the County Government cannot be able to recall that money as there is bank-client confidentiality. If it is not done, this Assembly will step in,” he stated.  He further said that an additional  Sh1.4 million paid to ‘investors’ during the ‘conference’ should be returned adding that departments concerned must ensure no single penny was lost.  “Then there is that issue of the additional monies paid for the ghost investor’s conference. It was Sh1.4 million. I expect that money will also be returned,” he said.   The widow of Jacob Juma has accused police of dragging their feet in the hunt for Juma’s killers  Four suspects of David Tangol muder caught on tape in a famous hotel in Mombasa  The Huruma building collapse has been attributed to weak structures and bad weather By Nderitu Gichure | 11 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 13 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 1 day ago By James Munyeki | 1 day ago President Uhuru Kenyatta furious over recent string of losses