Political leaders from Western on Friday lauded the passage of BBI Bill by the National Assembly and urged the Senate to endorse the document.  ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula commended the MPs who voted for the BBI, terming the passage historic.  Speaking during the burial of former Provincial Commissioner John Etemesi in Trans Nzoia County, Wetang’ula expressed optimism that the Senate would endorse the Bill on Tuesday next week.  Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa criticised lawmakers who voted against the Bill or abstained. He termed them “enemies of development”.  Mudavadi said MPs had shown the direction on BBI and the Senate should follow suit, adding that the BBI debate should come to an end at the close of the year to give room for economic issues.   ‘Kizungu mingi’ plunges Otiende into pit of party rejects  Bunge Chronicles: Ngunjiri, Malala tongue-tied as they turn on their word  ODM MPs say Raila's decision on BBI is final   How Ruto's big numbers in House failed “BBI has consumed most of our time and this debate has to be concluded by the end of the year to give space for other pressing issues,” said Mudavadi.  He said the document is a game-changer that would lead to economic recovery.  Spur development  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! “BBi will enable Kenyans at the county level to gain from the 35 per cent allocation to spur development. Kenyans will no longer depend on the national government for resources to initiate projects in rural areas,” he said.  Wetang’ula praised MPs for passing the Bill and described the document as a living organ, which though could not satisfy everybody, has room for improvement.  “There will be no more queuing in Nairobi for resources to the counties. Our counties will have enough funds to spur development and fight poverty,” said Wetang’ula.  Wamalwa termed the Yes vote for the BBI as historic.  “It will help create a more inclusive, equitable and prosperous Kenya. Those opposed to the Bill is are enemies of development,” said Wamalwa.  He commended local MPs Chris Wamalwa, Joshua Kuttuny, Caleb Amisi and Ferdinand Wanyonyi for supporting the Bill.  Amisi said that BBI was unstoppable and that it was going to have money trickle to counties to spur development and reduce poverty.  Obare Osinde        What is Ailing BBI? Lawyer Paul Mwangi on the BBI bill process in Kenya  BBI Bumpy Ride: Questions over different BBI bills with MPs noting that some bills were altered  Speaker Muturi says National Assembly will convene once a request is formally made By Fidelis Kabunyi | 1 hour ago By Kiraitu Murungi | 6 hours ago By Kamau Ngotho | 7 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo and Eric Abuga | 9 hours ago Is Orengo charting his path away from Raila?