A father and his two sons have been linked to a suspected notorious Liberian poacher and ivory trafficker, Moazu Kromar, who is facing charges in the United States, a Mombasa Court has been told.   An application filed last week by the Office of Director of Public Prosecutions (ODPP) also lifts the veil on Mombasa Port’s links to a web of transnational criminal enterprise.  The ODPP, in its application, claims that Abdulrahman Mahmoud Sheikh alias Said Juma and his sons, Sheikh Mohamud Abdulrahman and Mahmoud Abdulrahman Sheikh, were part of this web with operations cutting across Africa, Asia and the US.  ODPP states that it has received intelligence from the US justice systems linking the Sheikhs to Kromar who is facing charges for allegedly being behind wildlife trophies smuggled to the US.  The US believes that Kromar aka “Ayoba’’ aka ‘’youba’’ aka “Kampala man” who is a Liberian national organised the shipping of the 511 pieces of ivory through Kenya to Thailand.   Man sues magistrate for ordering ex-wife to access Sh3 million   Nakumatt CEO cannot attend court session in person on health grounds, doctor says  Akashas in court over New Year's eve gun drama  Mombasa Court frees schoolgirl who wants to get married “Kromar currently facing ivory trafficking charges in the US used to receive instructions from accomplices in Thailand and thereafter transmit the same to accused one and two (Sheikhs),” states senior state counsel Jami Yamina in his application filed last week in court.   He said the US believes Kromar has connection with the Sheikhs and the “Jefwa brothers’’ link to the bill of lading relating to the container No FCIU5235796 seized in Thailand with pieces of ivory.  The same bill of lading was also used to ship out tea leaves through the port of Mombasa.   Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! “This (container) was seized in Thailand concealing 511 pieces of ivory the subject of this case,” said the DPP in an application filed before Mombasa Chief Magistrate Evans Makori.     The “Jefwa brothers” are on the Interpol’s Red List after the Mombasa Court issued arrests. They are among those wanted for trafficking of the 511 pieces of ivory.   Credible evidence  This information from the DPP is also corroborated by Superintendent of Police James Githinji in his sworn affidavit also filed in the court last week.   According to the application, the US intelligence have credible evidence to link the Sheikhs to Kromar syndicate of poachers.   The Sheikhs are currently battling charges of ivory trafficking in the Mombasa Court. Their cases is scheduled to come up on May 27, but the DPP’s application introduces a new twist.   They are charged alongside Lucy Muthoni, Musa Lithare, Samuel Mundia, Salim Mohammed, Abbas Rashid and Kenneth Njuguna with trafficking 511 pieces of ivory to Laos, Thailand.  Both have denied the charges that they were behind the said tusks estimated to be worth Sh576 million on June 23, 2015.   Mombasa Court asks prosecutors to consider dropping the case against White Widow  State moves to high court to annul bond where Ivory suspect Feisal Mohammed is to remain in custody    Singapore - Thailand Ivory suspects charged in Mombasa Court By Joackim Bwana | 2 days ago By Winfrey Owino | 3 days ago By Benard Sanga and Patrick Beja | 3 days ago By Julius Chepkwony | 5 days ago