A song released about 14 years ago by the group Boomba Clan, titled ‘African Timer’ talked about how Africans rarely keep time.  But all over Kenya, the motorbikes, popularly known as bodaboda, have been an antidote to the ‘lateness syndrome’.  Due to their speed and convenience, the bikes have seen their popularity skyrocket, even earning their way into ride-hailing apps such as Uber and Bolt.  One thing, though, is weighing down this transport sub-sector: the cost of fuel.  John Njeru has been in the bodaboda business in Nairobi’s central business district for the past six years and he says he has experienced a sharp rise in fuel costs.  Nick Okoth becomes first Kenyan boxer to win in Russia  Kenyan boxers undergo COVID-19 tests in Russia  Hit Squad goes hunting for glory in Russia  Kenya boxing soaks up technical knock-out “Back in 2015 when I was starting off my business, I would use Sh200 worth of petrol for a whole day. Today my fuel cost ranges Sh500 to Sh1,000,” he says.  Fuel consumed by the motorbikes varies with how large the engine is; more powerful engines will consume more.  “Brands such as TVS, Boxer and SkyGo consume more petrol compared to other motorbikes,” says Njeru.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! “The high consumers hold an advantage, especially here in Nairobi CBD where we do deliveries of heavy products, which need more power.”  Joseph Gikaru is a young man who joined the bodaboda industry two years ago.  He says after the recent reopening of the economy, more people are commuting and he is ferrying more customers, yet his profits have not improved.  “My bike consumes more since I do more trips but fuel cost is quite high, keeping my profits at the same level,” he says.  “I used to buy Sh400 worth of petrol for a day, now I use Sh600.”  The traffic gridlock in Nairobi has also contributed to higher bodaboda usage. It is a critical balance between cost of transport and convenience.  But with many people’s disposable income reducing from the impact of Covid-19, Gikaru has observed that a good number of commuters would rather wait in traffic in a matatu than take a bodaboda, which is costlier.  Noah Kipkemboi     Covid Downward Trend: Kenya records 86 new Covid-19 cases with positivity rate now at 3.1%  HEALTH WATCH: Scientists working on developing vaccine that comes in form of a pill & nasal spray  Lurking Danger: Government warns of Covid-19 spikes in the coming months of June and July By Dominic Omondi | 4 hours ago By Graham Kajilwa | 9 hours ago By Ken Gichinga | 1 day ago By Nathan Ochunge | 2 days ago