The Rastafari Society of Kenya (RSK) has filed a case in court seeking to lift the law criminalising the use of marijuana.  In the case, filed before High Court, they argue that the law is unconstitutional for banning the private use of cannabis by persons professing the Rastafari faith.  The legal minds are advocating for the state to let the Rastafarians use cannabis in their houses and places of worship; which the law says is illegal.  The Rastafarian lawyers Shadrack Wambui and Alexander Mwendwa argue that cannabis is a 'sacrament'  used to connect a Rasta believer to their 'creator'.  “Cannabis can be spiritually referred to as bhang, marijuana, holy herb, kushungpeng, tire, ndom, vela, gode and kindukulu,” they added.  What next for Atwoli after BBI setback?  Jennifer Wambua murder suspect charged  Arms deal graft trial against S.African ex-president Zuma adjourned to May 26  BBI promoters say House route the best option They said marijuana is used by adherents of the faith for medicinal, culinary and ceremonial purposes as evinced in their Holy Book called ‘Holy Piby’.  According to the lawyers representing the Rastafarians, the verse which allows them to smoke marijuana is referred to as ‘Nebra Negas (Glory of Kings) or through ‘reasoning’ which involves the use of cannabis in their tabernacles.  The plaintiff wants the court to quash section 3(2) (a) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Control Act.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! The section states that any person guilty of an offence in respect of cannabis, where the person satisfies the court that the cannabis was intended solely for his own consumption, to imprisonment for ten years and in every other case to imprisonment for twenty years.      BBI APPEAL: Senior Counsel Prof. Tom Ojienda talks on appeal against judgment that nullified the BBI  A.G Paul Kihara files notice of appeal against the high court judgement that found BBI null and void  Section of leaders divided on the next step forward concerning the constitutional amendment process By Edwin Nyarangi and Daniel Chege | 10 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 11 hours ago By Erastus M Mulwa | 14 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 20 hours ago Ruto, Raila and Matiang’i lock horns in Bonchari by-election