Jubilee’s Susan Waititu and supporters storm out of Mangu High School tallying centre. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  Vote tallying in the Juja parliamentary by-election has resumed following its suspension by the Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission (IEBC) Chair Wafula Chebukati yesterday.  IEBC officials say results are expected not later than 4 pm today.  Although, just minutes after the process was re-opened, Jubilee candidate Susan Waititu and her supporters have staged a walk-out, alleging vote theft.  On Tuesday night, chaos erupted at the Mang’u High School tallying centre, following allegations of vote-rigging, intimidation, and bribery.  What you need to know about the Juja by-election  Candidate in Juja by-election charged with papers forgery   Governor Nyoro condemns donors of poisonous food as victims go for treatment  Nyoro’s first 100 days amid war on Covid-19 In a widely circulated video, Kiambu Governor James Nyoro is heard demanding a fair tallying process.  “We are not fools, and we have made our point,” he beckoned.    Chaos then ensued as chairs flew inside the hall. Police were forced to send the team away as they tried to salvage the situation.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Jubilee’s Susan Waititu and supporters storm out of Mangu High School tallying centre. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  Governor Nyoro, Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro were among politicians kicked out by the police.  IEBC’s Chebukati then suspended the vote-counting process until normalcy was restored. He said in a statement yesterday: “These acts of hooliganism made it impossible for vote tallying to proceed.”  At the time of closing the tallying on Tuesday night, KTN News reported that votes from at least 16 centres had been counted.  Progressive Empowerment Party (PEP) candidate George Koimburi was leading the pack with a difference of over 700 votes between him and Jubilee’s Susan Waititu.  Results from two other by-elections held yesterday are already in with Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) winning Bochari and United Democratic Alliance (UDA) taking Rurii ward.      By James Munyeki | 22 hours ago By Nderitu Gichure | 1 day ago By Gitau Wanyoike | 2 days ago By Jacinta Mutura | 3 days ago ODM man Pavel Oimeke wins closely fought Bonchari by-election