Burundi President Evariste Ndayishimiye  Burundi President Evariste Ndayishimiye will jet into the country on Monday, May 31 to attend Tuesday’s Madaraka Day celebrations.  According to sources within the government, President Ndayishimiye might be the only foreign Head of State to grace the ceremony, which will be held in Kisumu County.  East African Community (EAC) recently named President Ndayishimiye as rapporteur while President Kenyatta was chosen as the community’s chairperson.  In June 2020, President Kenyatta congratulated Ndayishimiye on his election as President and pledged to work with him, saying Burundi was Kenya’s valued development partner.  FACT CHECK: The truth behind Sh498m Jomo Kenyatta Stadium in Kisumu  Why Uhuru, Raila train ride to Kisumu has been cancelled  Covid-19: Missed AstraZeneca jab? Johnson & Johnson on the way  Only 3,000 people will be allowed to attend Madaraka Day celebrations The visit comes after a similar one to Uganda on May 13 to woo Ugandan investors to invest in Burundi.  This year’s Madaraka Day celebrations will be an invite-only event as part of the Covid-19 measures.  Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o said only 3,000 guests have been invited to attend the celebrations.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! “Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium can accommodate 35,000 people, however, we have only invited 3,000 which is about 10 per cent of the entire capacity. This is in line with the Covid-19 protocols,” said Governor Nyong’o.  This is the first time Kisumu will host a national ceremony.  Previously, the holidays were presided over in Nairobi until the Jubilee regime revised the trend to rotate the celebrations in counties.  Madaraka Day is celebrated every year on June 1 to commemorate the day Kenya attained internal self-rule in 1963 after colonisation from Britain.   Leaders from Nyanza region hold meeting with President Kenyatta ahead of Madaraka day celebrations  Changes in Kisumu: Land court to make a determination on county's directive of banning burials in CB  Police holding 8 teenage girls found posing for nude photos at a Kisumu public park By Julius Chepkwony | 5 hours ago By Patrick Muinde | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago By Tony Mochama | 5 hours ago