Some of the sim cards and wristwatches that were recovered from the suspects.[DCI]  Two suspects believed to be behind the dangerous trade of spiking revellers' drinks in Kiambu County have been arrested.  The two, Irene Njoki Irungu and her accomplice Peter Irungu Wambugu were arrested on Friday by detectives based at Kiambaa.  The Directorate of Criminal Investigations-DCI said the two are notorious for stupefying unsuspecting revelers in Kiambu County and its environs.    UDA unveils new candidates for Kiambaa, Muguga  Streetwise vendor sets eyes on seat in Juja by-election  Journalist attacked by a family while in the line of duty  City carjacking: DCI warn drivers over gang stealing vehicle parts  Njoki who is said to have been plying her trade as ‘Michelle’ for fear of her true identity being unmasked fell into the detectives’ dragnet trap after being on the run for as many days.  The DCI said the suspect who hobnobs in various clubs within Kiambu looking for her next victim has been spiking revelers’ drinks with a drug that tranquilises them for up to 12 hours before robbing them off their money and other valuables.  “She has perfected her art in what is commonly described as ‘wekaing Mchele’ to the point of acquiring dozens of SIM Cards, where she deposits money stolen from stupefied victims’ bank accounts, then once the money has been successfully transferred, she withdraws it without raising any suspicion,” the DCI said.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! The George Kinoti led department said Irene is suspected to be heading a syndicate of notorious criminals who prey on unsuspecting revelers, making merry in drinking joints within Ruaka and its environs in Kiambu county.  “Detectives based at Kiambaa have previously received reports from tenants who have lost every household item they owned, including their clothes, bedding and utensils after they entertained a reveler whose description fits that of the suspect,” the department posted on its Twitter account.  The detectives said dozens of SIM cards, mobile phones and wristwatches suspected to have been stolen from her ‘Mchele’ victims were recovered from her custody.  Also recovered from her was the drug used in stupefying her victims, suspected to be used in the treatment of panic attacks.  The suspects are currently being held at the Karuri Police station, as they wait to be presented before the court on Monday.      Fake Jobs Syndicate: Senior Sergeant Grace Nyamohanga, also known as ‘Nasra’ surrenders to DCI  A family in Nakuru seeks justice for the murder of their last born son.  US missionary jailed for 40 years for sexually assaulting children at a Children's Home in Kenya By Fidelis Kabunyi | 14 hours ago By George Njunge | 1 day ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 1 day ago By Boniface Gikandi | 1 day ago Uhuru unveils major plans for Nyanza ahead of visit