Security officers in Homa Bay County have rescued two schoolgirls from a man who allegedly has been defiling them for the last month.  The 15-year-old girls were rescued from a house at Kadongo trading center, Kowidi Sub-location in Rachuonyo East Sub-county on Saturday.  The minors hail from Nyakach sub-county and disappeared from their homes a month ago.  One of the girls sat her 2020 Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCSE) and got 288 marks at a primary school in Kisumu County and another one is a Standard Seven pupil.  The children were found in a carpenter's house and were identified by a Nyakach resident who had gone to Kadongo, who then informed family members.  Murder most foul: Shock as man defiles and stabs two teenagers  Magoha challenges Tom Mboya college to prioritise fish production  Employment court reinstates impeached official until case is determined  Police net bhang in abandoned car Kowidi assistant chief Michael Aoro rushed to the scene and rescued the minors.  “The incident is strange because the man has been defiling the girls in his house. One of them is telling us that she used to sleep in a chair while the other was sleeping in the man's bed,” Aoro said.    Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! "But her statement does not make sense because she is not telling us the reason why she left home and resorted to sleeping in a chair inside a house that doesn’t belong to her relative,” he added.  The administrator took the minors to Othoro Police Station where police interrogated them further before they underwent medical tests at Othoro Hospital.  Police are still looking for the man who escaped during the raid.  “The man disappeared after realising that the minors’ family members were in his house,” Aoro said, adding that they will ensure he is arrested.  He urged parents to take care of their children to prevent such incidents.  “Let parents be keen in monitoring movements of their children to enhance their safety. Defilement is a serious offence,” he added.   Dr. Amolo who was stabbed by his son passes on  Unyama: Mwanamume mwenye umri wa miaka 42 ambaka bintiye Murang’a  Mwanafunzi atoweka baada ya kupachikwa miimba na mwalimu By Erick Abuga | 10 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 13 hours ago By Stanley Ongwae | 1 day ago By James Omoro | 2 days ago