The rush to have Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium ready for this year's Madaraka Day celebrations may be in vain.  The June 1 event, which commemorates the day the country attained self-rule, was scheduled to be held at the stadium located in Mamboleo, Kisumu East, but this now seems unlikely.  By yesterday, it was apparent that the government was yet to settle on the venue for the event, and was making several other considerations.  Sources told The Sunday Standard that the proposal to change the venue to State Lodge arose following fears that it may be difficult to control the crowd at a time when Kisumu is among the counties recording high Covid-19 infections.    President Uhuru Kenyatta arrives in Kisumu  Madaraka Day still on at Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium, Kibicho  High expectations and anxiety as Kisumu readies to welcome Uhuru  Kenya-Burundi first ladies to conduct own business in Nyanza State House spokesperson Kanze Dena yesterday said there were discussions which were likely to lead to adjustments in the president’s programme.  “There are ongoing discussions, and this office will give regular briefings in regards to the venue for the event, and the president’s programme during his three-day visit to the region,” said Dena.  And yesterday, the State Lodge was a hive of activity with a podium being set up, and red carpet laid, as workers made final touches to repairs and arrangements.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Last week, former Prime Minister Raila visited Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium accompanied by Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o where they confirmed that the event would be held at the facility.  Nyong’o also announced that only 3,000 people wouldbe allowed into the stadium, while the rest would follow the proceedings on screens which would be set up at three public places.  But three days later, Nyong’o changed his mind, saying due to Covid-19 protocols, there would be no public screening of the event, and advised people to instead follow the event on national television stations that will cover the event live.  Dena also announced that Burundian President Evariste Ndayishimiye would be the chief guest for this year's Madaraka Day celebrations in Kisumu.  Chief guest  Ndayishimiye is expected to jet into the country on Monday together with his wife Angeline Ndayubaha for the June 1 event.  Dena said the Burundian president will be received by President Uhuru Kenyatta and First Lady Margret Kenyatta for the two-day visit.  "The Burundian president and First Lady will join President Kenyatta and the First Lady during his tour of the various national government projects in Kisumu County and Nyanza region," said Dena yesterday during a press conference at Kisumu State Lodge.  “During the visit, the head of state will officially open national government projects, inspect ongoing initiatives and launch new projects. The president will be joined on the tour by several national and regional leaders,” said Dena.  Uhuru will also not use a train to the lakeside city together with Raila as earlier indicated, but will fly instead.   Venue of Madaraka Day celebrations could be changed following fears of possible spike in Covid cases  Leaders from Nyanza region hold meeting with President Kenyatta ahead of Madaraka day celebrations  Walking down the memory lane of Nairobi city  By Patrick Vidija | 1 hour ago By Patrick Vidija | 3 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo and Winfrey Owino | 4 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago