A headteacher who allegedly threw his five-month-old baby into the fire has been charged with attempted murder.  Paul Kipyegon, who appeared before Baringo Senior Resident Magistrate Nerolyne Idagwa on Tuesday, denied subjecting the baby, Aegwo Kipyego, to cruel treatment over his wife’s alleged infidelity.  It is alleged that the suspect harmed his son on April 25 at Ngaratuko village in Baringo North Sub-county, Baringo County after a disagreement over the child’s paternity.  State prosecutor Joseck Abwajo opposed Kipyegon's bond application saying if released, the suspect would interfere with witnesses.  “The state opposes the bail application. As much as the constitution allows the accused to be granted bail. We have three compelling reasons why the accused should not be released at this stage,” said Abwajo.  Head teacher accused of throwing baby into fire surrenders to police  Teacher who threw baby to open fire still at large  Father from hell: Man throws baby into fire over quarrel with wife  Man attempts suicide after killing girlfriend Abwajo said the state has a duty to protect the baby and the mother and asked for Kipyegon to be taken for a mental assessment.  “As this court proceeds at the moment, the minor in question is in critical condition at Baringo County Hospital undergoing treatment, and upon this charge, the state strongly believes that the minor, together with the mother, will go back to the same house, which they share with the accused person, thus the likelihood of interference of witnesses will not be ruled out,” added Abwajo.  The court will give a ruling on the bail application on May 10.   Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Kipyegon had earlier pleaded with the court to be released on bond saying the offense was bailable.  He told the court that he was ailing.  “I need the duration of one week. I'm expecting someone to come to court, to stand as a surety. I have a stomachache,” Kipyego said.  The case will be heard on June 14.   Leaders pay their tributes to the late Hosea Kiplagat during his burial ceremony in Baringo County  BBI Bill Vote: More counties to debate bill next week, Baringo is the only county to reject bill  KANU leaders hint that they will seek presidency in the 2017 general elections By Kennedy Gachuhi | 20 hours ago By Yvonne Chepkwony | 1 day ago By Julius Chepkwony | 1 day ago By Stephen Rutto | 1 day ago Uhuru Kenyatta changes tune on purge against DP William Ruto allies