Chief Justice Martha Koome at the Supreme Court, Nairobi. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  The Law Society of Kenya has assured its firm support to Chief Justice Martha Koome as she takes up the mantle at the helm of the Judiciary.  LSK, in a statement yesterday, acknowledged some of the challenges CJ Koome will encounter, among them a culture of impunity and intimidation that has crept into the Judiciary.  “The Chief Justice takes office at a time when there is a developing culture of impunity and attacks on Judicial officers by parties dissatisfied with court orders,” the institution said.  The Society further hopes that the new Chief Justice will finally put into rest the issue of the stalemate on appointment of Judges.  Worry not, Judiciary in safe hands, Justice Koome tells Kenyans  Will Man United defender Maguire play in the Europa League final?  Judiciary’s finest hour or elites’ reckoning moment?  BBI ruling widens rift between judiciary and executive “During the interviews, a question was put to her on the failure by the president to appoint Judges. The time has come when her proposals and strategies in dealing with the issue will be put to test,” the statement, signed by LSK Secretary Mercy Wambua read in part.  LSK however expressed confidence in her leadership and hopes that CJ Martha Koome will prioritise among others the digitisation of Judicial operations, devolution and improved infrastructure.  It termed her appointment as Kenya’s first female Chief Justice a historic milestone.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! During her swearing-in ceremony on Friday at Supreme Court buildings, Nairobi, CJ Koome urged for backing from the Executive as she discharges her duties.  She asked the Executive to accord the Judiciary the necessary support by obeying court orders.  “I have no difficulties to state that the independence of the Judiciary cannot be interfered with. Any party trying to direct how the Judiciary should decide a matter would be interfering with the Constitution,” she said.   "We must be sensitive," Senior Counsel Fred Ngatia on what he would like to see in Judiciary  Law Society of Kenya to freeze its assets in the troubled Chase Bank, says vice chair Faith Waigwa  Chief Justice Mutunga addresses graft cases By Nathan Ochunge | 1 hour ago By Kamau Ngotho | 1 hour ago By Daniel Chege | 1 hour ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago Grab a copy of today's Standard & Nairobian Epaper for only 10/-