George Ndung’u Koimburi, the controversial Juja parliamentary aspirant is expected to appear in court today to answer to charges of deceit and forgery.  He pleaded not guilty when the matter came up in court last month.  The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) flagged Koimburi when he presented his academic papers to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) for clearance to vie in the by-election slated for May 18.  With just eight days to the by-election, the aspirant who unsuccessfully vied for the seat in 2017 is likely to face legal hurdles.  According to court documents, Koimburi allegedly submitted a fake degree certificate to EACC and the IEBC.   Uhuru visits Juja as campaigns intensify ahead of May 18 polls  MCAs now train guns on Kananu over medical fund  Candidate in Juja by-election charged with papers forgery   End of road for politicians with fake academic papers The Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec) and Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture And Technology separately wrote to DCI informing them that the papers were not genuine.  “A candidate by the name of Ndungu George Koimburi did not register nor sit for the 1994 KCSE examination at Ekalakala Secondary School under index 62001/013,” read a letter signed by Knec acting CEO Mercy Karogo filed in court.  JKUAT registrar of academic affairs Dr Esther Muoria, in a letter dated March 22, said that the papers presented were not authentic as there were no records showing Koimburi received the purported certificates from the institution.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! If found guilty, the aspirant risks being disqualified from the race.  More than 10 aspirants are eyeing the seat that fell vacant following the demise of the late MP Francis Munyua Waititu aka ‘Wakapee.’   "Unaweza kuwa kiongozi na utendee watu wako," President Uhuru pays his tribute to the late Juja MP  R.I.P Wakapee: Uhuru among the dignitaries who will lead Kenyans in attending the burial of Juja MP  Juja MP ‘Wakapee’ dies after a long battle with brain cancer, Francis Waititu passed on late Monday By Mireri Junior | 11 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 1 day ago By Brian Okoth | 1 day ago By Brian Okoth | 2 days ago Is Orengo charting his path away from Raila?