The Government is now seeking to review National Police Service standing orders to stop commissioned officers from marrying their juniors.  In a move aimed at instilling discipline, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i said he would be seeking the approval of the National Security Council to introduce the changes.  Matiang’i said intimate relationships between the senior officers and juniors “has the potential of undermining command, order and discipline among officers.”  Speaking at Kiganjo Police Training College in Nyeri where she presided over the commencement of training course for 300 officer cadets, the CS said the situation can no longer be tolerated, insisting there is a need to adopt a new way of doing things.  He said the police service will adopt a policy similar to that of the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF).  Matiang’i orders senior police officers not to marry their juniors  Minor charged with theft while wearing police uniform  Doing investigative stories is not a crime as DCI claims  KDF soldier, policeman attack colleagues in Nairobi CBD “It’s necessary that we adopt a new way of doing things. We expect you to guide and lead those who will graduate as police constables. We have already put up a team that will look at how we manage male-female relationships in the security sector in the country,” Matiang’i told the cadets.  Gender office  The CS said he is awaiting the approval of proposed new standing orders by the National Security Council (NSC).  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! The National Police Service (NPS), Matiang’i said, plans to set up a Gender and Ethics Office under the Inspector General of Police’s office to manage male and female relationships in the service.  But a Nyeri-based lawyer Charles King’ori, said the proposed standing orders do not have a force in law, terming the move as unconstitutional.  “It's a social right that cannot be alienated from a person. Such orders are just by laws. The CS will need to amend the law if they are to be implemented,” the lawyer stated.  The CS, however, defended the proposal as necessary to rein in officers who have run amok.  “The integrity we expect is not unusual to us. We will draw a clear line. However, we will not affect those already married,” the CS added.  Matiang’i also said that upon approval, the ministry intends to create an Ethics and Gender relations office that will be directly under the Inspector General of the Police’s office.  “We cannot look away anymore and ignore the challenges we have had in the security sector. We have had complaints mostly from our female officers about sexual harassment, these are the things we seek to address,” he added.  However, those already in matrimonial unions will not be affected.  “If it gets to that point, then one of you will have to quit the service,” he stated.  Cases of police officers killing their loved ones who are also officers have been on the rise.    newsdesk@standardmedia.co.ke       Fake KDF calling letters; 55 recruits arrested at Moi Barracks Recruits Training School  EACC yadai kufanya ukaguzi fedha za KDF ili kuziba miaya ya matumizi mabaya  Shughuli ya kuwateua vijana wanaotaka kujiunga na jeshi limeng'oa nanga hii leo mjini Kwanza By Benard Sanga and Willis Oketch | 1 hour ago By Josphat Thiongó | 7 hours ago By Josphat Thiongó | 9 hours ago By Fred Kagonye | 10 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements