A group of MPs is pushing for the impeachment of Interior Cabinet Secretary (CS) Fred Matiang’i following the debacle in just-concluded by-elections.  This comes amid outrage by the political class over excessive deployment and use of force by police during the Bonchari and Juja parliamentary and Rurii ward by-elections.  Belgut MP Nelson Koech, an ally of Deputy President Wiliam Ruto, yesterday became the latest entrant into the CS Matiang’i ouster bandwagon, saying that a plan to oust the super CS had been mooted and claimed there were sufficient grounds to support the move.  “There’s sufficient grounds to impeach Dr Matiang'i. Watch this space,” wrote the legislator on his Twitter page.  On Wednesday, Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi also said the ouster of the “bullyish” CS Matiang’i was imminent and would happen in the next two weeks.  George Koimburi's long journey, many fights to Juja MP seat  The Blame Game: Who failed Uhuru?   UDA rolls out major drive to list aspirants  Governor James Nyoro denies instigating violence in Juja "President Uhuru Kenyatta's team has been planning to impeach Ruto but I want to tell you one thing, impeaching the DP is not as easy as you think. But let's leave that now, I want to tell you this, we're going to impeach Matiang'i, in the next two weeks, Matiang'i must go home," he stated.  Sudi accused the CS of using intimidation during the by-elections.  "In all by-elections, Matiang'i always sends heavy security detail in order to rig the elections to favour a particular candidate. Our police force is innocent; they are just following orders. So, we want to streamline the law as Tangatanga," Sudi stated.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Their utterances came hot on the heels of another hard-hitting statement by ODM leader Raila Odinga, accusing unnamed government officials of taking advantage of the March 2018 handshake to erode hard-won liberties.  “What we have witnessed in the by-elections in Bonchari and Juja is an abuse of police powers and an arrogant display of impunity by a few overzealous and bellicose government functionaries,” the ODM leader tweeted. “Security forces exist to serve the people and not the interests of those out to conduct political experiments.”  Kikuyu MP kimani Ichungwa yesterday said the entire Cabinet is impeachable after the CSs abandoned their jobs to do politics.  “If ODM brings an impeachment motion against Matiang'i, we will consider it on its merit because they are the ones who have issues with him," he said.  He however denied a move by Tanga Tanga to sponsor the impeachment motion.  Homa Bay town MP Peter Kaluma said ODM had no reason to move an impeachment motion against Matiang'i.  “We have channels to address issues like what was seen in the by-elections. We have not addressed as a party this matter but somebody can resolve to do it,” he said.  Murang'a Senator Irungu Kangata said he is aware of the plot to impeach the CS in the National Assembly but did ont give details on who is spearheading the same.  MPs Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira) and Moses Kuria (Gatundu South) faulted the heavy deployment of officers during the polls, terming it a strategy to instill fear among voters.  ODM also bashed Matiang'i, saying they were harassed during Bonchari by-election, including some officers storming the residence of Kisii Governor James Ongwae, while meeting his team.  But Jubilee Party vice chairman David Murathe defended Matiang'i, saying the deployment of police officers was to ensure maximum security to the voters.  ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna called on the sacking of Matiang’i. “To secure his legacy, President Uhuru must sack overzealous, bellicose government functionaries with imaginary, short-legged political ambition. The ODM party cannot be the one to always guard the handshake against enemies even those within the President’s circle. #SackMatiangi,” tweeted Sifuna.  This is not the first time ODM has complained of interference by Harambee House, during Matungu by-election they claimed their candidate David Were was rigged out in favour of ANC's Peter Nabulindo despite being handshake partners with the President.  For an impeachment motion of a CS to be moved in Parliament, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has to verify that the grounds listed meet the constitutional threshold.  Should it be cleared, the motion will require the support of at least one-third of members (116) for Parliament to establish a select committee to investigate the claims against the CS.  Two CSs have faced impeachments; Anne Waiguru (2014) and Jacob Kaimenyi (2015) but both motions were unsuccessful.  jthiongo@standardmedia.co.ke      Wajir Governor impeachment verdict to be rendered on Monday by the Senate Special Committee  Jubilee, ODM and UDA to faceoff in Bonchari and Juja by-elections on Tuesday | HOUSE OF CARDS  IEBC says it's ready to conduct the Bonchari and Juja by-elections slated for Tuesday By Brian Otieno | 3 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 1 day ago By Fidelis Kabunyi | 1 day ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 1 day ago