One Kenya Alliance principals are in the process of formalising a political pact that will spell out power-sharing agreement in readiness for the 2022 General Election.  Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka, Kanu chairman and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and Ford-Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula yesterday received a report from a technical committee that they tasked with formalising the new alliance.  In a statement, the four leaders disclosed that progress had been made in crafting the political formation that seeks to have one of its principals succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta when he exits office next year.  “The One Kenya Alliance Principals met today (yesterday) to receive an update report form a technical committee on the progress made in formalising the Alliance,” read the joint statement sent to newsrooms.  The leaders are said to have expressed “satisfaction with the progress so far,” noting that Kenyans were anxiously waiting for the same “as a vehicle that carries their aspirations”.  By ignoring title, High Court judge disrespected President  Tanzania's admission good for war against Covid-19 in East Africa  Indian Army organises COVID-19 awareness programme in J-K's Baramulla  Judiciary has affirmed it's a fearless custodian of justice The disclosure, by the team, of the existence of a technical committee suggests that there are already discussions on who will go for what position in the next poll.  All four leaders have indicated interest to run for the top seat, making the process of picking the alliance’s flag bearer a delicate affair.  The leaders have in the past hinted at bringing onboard more key figures to craft a formidable outfit for the succession battle. Some of the principals have separately held consultative meetings with other political players, including ODM leader Raila Odinga.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! At the same time, the leaders commended Senate for ratifying the impeachment of Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi Mohamud on Monday.  They said that was a bold step in the fight against corruption and impunity.  Gideon and Wetang’ula were among the 25 senators that voted in support of the impeachment Motion and sealed the fate of the governor.  The leaders expressed dissatisfaction with the High Court judgement that declared the Building Bridges Initiative null and void, putting an injunction to the referendum through the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020. On Covid-19, the leaders expressed concern over reports of a potential fourth wave in July.  They called on the Ministry of Health to intensify mass testing and vaccination to mitigate any possible devastating effects of the pandemic.  The leaders urged relevant authorities to urgently put in place measures to curb destruction caused by flooding. They also called on the government to fast track the distribution of subsidised seeds and fertiliser to farmers to take advantages of the ongoing rains.  mnyamori@standardmedia.co.ke            Unpacking the BBI process ruling with Gabriel Muthuma & Ambrose Weda | CHECKPOINT WITH LINDAH OGUTU  Covid Downward Trend: Kenya records 86 new Covid-19 cases with positivity rate now at 3.1%  A.G Kukata Rufaa: Mwanasheria mkuu apania kukata rufaa kwenye uamuzi wa kesi ya ripoti ya BBI By Josphat Thiongó | 2 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 2 hours ago By Eric Abuga | 3 hours ago By Brian Otieno and Fidelis Kabunyi | 9 hours ago ODM man Pavel Oimeke wins closely fought Bonchari by-election