World Under-20 Championships Chief Executive Officer Mike Rabar is confident the country will host a successful event amid the evolving Covid-19 pandemic.  Addressing the media yesterday, Rabar said they have put everything in place to ensure the championships slated for July 7-12 is successful.  With the event scheduled in between the Tokyo Olympic Games and WRC Safari Rally which is making a return to Kenya, Rabar branded the pandemic a 'blessing in disguise', as it gave the Local Organising Committee an extra eight months to prepare for the event. “Covid-19 has give us an extra eight months to put together an event of this magnitude. We have enough time to ensure everything is in right position, safe and secure event for the athletes,” said Rabar.  Just like in the Magical Kenya Open and Savannah Classic tournaments, the CEO explained bubbles will be used to help minimise contact between athletes, media and officials.  Shujaa finish second at Rugby Africa tournament  Kenya’s legends want country’s rich history in athletics to be preserved  NYERI: Ruring’u Stadium will not be ready anytime soon  Oliech: Why 'Engineer' Olunga needs Wanyama’s help  FKF-PL clubs likely to miss out on CAF competitions  “We are going to use a lot of bubbles to control movements of media, athletes, officials,” said Rabar.  Kenyatta University will act as the athletes’ village. Already holding more than 15,000 students a day, the university will be used by all athletes during the championships.  “Warm up and competition areas have been zoned. There will be a clear flow of how athletes will move from the village into the stadium, competition area then back to the village,” Rabar explains.  Kenya has also been in constant contact with World Athletics, gauging preparedness as well as finding out the best ways to deliver a perfect event. Audiences will also be able to stream the event live on TV and digital platforms.  Rabar hopes the event will act as a catalyst to the Olympics and allow audiences interact with top athletes.  By Reuters | 3 hours By Stephen Rutto | 19 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 3 days ago By World Athletics | 4 days ago