A Class Seven pupil stabbed his classmate to death in Bogwendo, Nyamira County, after they disagreed over ownership of a pen.  The 15-year-old boy is said to have stabbed his colleague in the chest, killing him instantly.  Manga Police Commander Gabriel Mwangangi said the incident happened at Bogwendo Primary School on Monday afternoon.  Mwangangi said the two pupils had an issue since morning over the pen with each one claiming ownership. A teacher who was in the classroom tried to solve the matter but postponed the verdict of the case to the afternoon, according to the police boss.  "It was towards lunch hour when the case was reported and the two boys were allowed to go home for lunch and return in the afternoon for the verdict. They were returning to class when the assailant stabbed his classmate with a knife within the school compound before running away," he said.  Man stabs wife to death, attempts to kill self  Knifeman kills Paris policeman and partner, Islamic State claims responsibility  Mother stabs her two daughters to death because she suspects one has cancer  Man stabs girlfriend seven times before committing suicide in Nairobi According to a security officer, the boy threw the knife and took off.  "He told us he threw the knife and as he ran. We have tried to look for it but we haven't found it yet. We have, however, instructed the area chief to mobilise the public to look for the killer weapon which we shall use as an exhibit in court," Mwangangi said.  The boy went to hiding but he was later found and arrested.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website!   "Already, the parents of the pupils, their class teacher and the head teacher, have recorded statements with the police and we expect to prosecute the matter," he said.  After the incident, irate members of the public moved to the suspect's home and torched one house.  As a result of the incident, those believed to be behind the torching, are being sought to answer to charges of arson.  The bizarre incident happened about five kilometers from Mokwerero Secondary School where a student threatened to chop the deputy principal with a machete for allegedly refusing to give him an exercise book.   Bodaboda rider detained over the brutal stabbing of two teenagers that left one of them dead  Man accused of stabbing wife to death By Benard Lusigi | 1 day ago By John S Shilitsa | 5 days ago By Willy Lusighe and Betty Njeru | 6 days ago By Robert Amalemba | 6 days ago Bitter sibling rivalry threatens to split Ruto camp ahead of 2022 poll