Jubilee Party will conduct nominations to pick a candidate for the Kiambaa by-election on May 15.  Party Secretary-General Raphael Tuju said they wanted the most popular candidate among the five aspirants to represent the constituency for the remaining one year.  “I don’t think we will have any problem because we will do a credible nomination process. We assure all aspirants that we will do a credible process in identifying the right candidate,” said Tuju yesterday, adding: “Our interest is the electorate; who do they want? We have no bias and emotions attached to the process.”  Three aspirants are members of the Koinange family.  June Koinange, widow to Paul Koinange, Lenah Koinange, a daughter of former Cabinet Minister Mbiyu Koinange, and her niece Damaris Wambui have declared interest in the seat.  Reprieve for Mwaura, Omanga in Jubilee expulsion case  Kiambaa by-election: Jubilee announces nomination date  Uhuru changes tune on purge against DP Ruto allies  Jubilee split over push to cut ties with Ruto The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has set July 15 as date for the Kiambaa by-election.  June, who unsuccessfully contested for Kiambu Woman Representative in 2013 and 2017, said she was prevailed upon by the people and opinion leaders to run.  She is banking on grassroots networks and involvement in various projects to support locals to clinch the Jubilee ticket.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! “There have been many discussions in Kiambaa that have brought together voters as well as thought and opinion leaders. The people have agreed that they need a strong personality to complete projects started and initiated by the late Paul Koinange,’’ said June.  She said voters should be allowed to pick the best candidate without them being labelled as members of the Koinange family.  The family is said to have settled on Lenah to vie for the seat on Jubilee party ticket.        "I was never a part or a member of Jubilee Party...I'm here as a candidate," SC Fred Ngatia  "I was never a part or a member of Jubilee Party...I'm here as a candidate," SC Fred Ngatia  Political Analyst Gabriel Muthuma on DP Ruto's fate in the Jubilee party By Moses Nyamori | 15 hours ago By Gerald Mutethia | 1 day ago By Brian Otieno | 1 day ago By Moses Nyamori and Kepher Otieno | 1 day ago Uhuru Kenyatta changes tune on purge against DP William Ruto allies