Standard Group PLC and United Nations Children’s Fund (Unicef) yesterday signed a partnership agreement to champion the rights of children in Kenya.    The deal will see the media house use its TV, radio and print platforms to highlight critical issues such as the impact of Covid-19 on children, ending violence against children, access to rural sanitation and parenting skills for young children.  Last year, school closures interrupted formal learning for over millions children for between six and nine months. They also faced increased risks of violence, child labour and early marriage.  Speaking at the Standard Group offices on Mombasa Road, Unicef Kenya Country Representative Maniza Zaman said around one in two young adults in the country experienced violence as a child, citing the 2019 Violence Against Children survey.  “The media has reach, power and responsibility to help shine a light on these threats, put out balanced reports, show what needs to be done and amplify ongoing positive work for children. I would like to thank Standard Group for working with Unicef to protect and uphold children’s right in Kenya,” said Ms Zaman.  Success Covid-19 vaccines creates renewed interest in HIV cure search  Covid-19: Kenya records 572 cases, 18 deaths in last 24 hours  Students back to campus as in-person learning resumes  Covid-19: Last drop of the drip left my mother cured Standard Group CEO Orlando Lyomu said media reporting on child rights is integral to protecting them and promoting their best interests.  “As a leading media house, we are committed to providing information on children’s rights - both where these are met and missed - and to include children’s voice in our programming. We also provide safe platforms where children can access information and participate in awareness-raising programmes,” said Lyomu.  He noted that the Group’s investigative journalistic approach has unearthed many important stories affecting children, leading to action by the Government.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Also present were Editor-in-Chief Ochieng’ Rapuro and Unicef Chief of Communication, Advocacy and Partnerships Andy Brown.     Standard Group officially relaunches it's E-Paper platform with a new improved user experience  Standard Group PLC and UNICEF form a partnership focusing on Children Rights  Government sets aside Ksh 7 billion for vaccines to acquire two different types of Covid-19 vaccines By Lucas Ngasike | 2 hours ago By Sunday Standard team | 3 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 4 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 10 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements