Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday hosted visitors from Nigeria at his Karen home seeking his daughter June's hand in marriage.  June’s future husband Alexander Ezenagu is an assistant Law Professor at the Hamad Bin Khalifa University.  Assistant Law Professor Alexander Ezenagu.  The college further describes him as an international tax expert, who specializes in international tax law, transfer pricing, tax planning, investment advisory and commercial law advisory and practice.   UDA opens an office in Raila's turf, planning to have more  Bunge Chronicles: Ngunjiri, Malala tongue-tied as they turn on their word  Ruto reacts to BBI vote outcome  DP Ruto: Political parties are ethnic ghettos run by tribal kingpins  He obtained his Ph.D. in international tax law from McGill University, Canada.  Ezenagu is also a graduate of the University of Cambridge, United Kingdom, where he obtained an LL.M. in commercial law.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! He holds an LL.B. degree from the University of Ibadan, Nigeria and has been admitted as a Barrister and Solicitor of the Supreme Court of Nigeria.    One of the guests was businessman and Nigerian politician Osita Chidok, who posted on Facebook saying, the Kalenjin people of Kenya are pastoral people and have so much in common with the Igbos of Nigeria.  “I was the negotiator at the bride price settlement ceremony. We haggled, we negotiated and at the end, we agreed on how many cows would be a fair price for the hands of June.”   He added that DP William Ruto, June's father, kept the event small and simple, and family-focused.  “His position as Deputy President was relegated as he played the role of a father. Hon. Ruto and his wife [Racheal] were great hosts.  “I regaled them with Igbo customs, proverbs, and more. They are looking forward to visiting Ani Igbo to eat roasted yam and red oil. They also want to see Umuaro and Umuofia as described by Chinua Achebe. Well, I told them that visiting Obosi and Alex's village Uli will suffice.”   KANU leaders hint that they will seek presidency in the 2017 general elections   Deputy President William Ruto believes that CORD is out to cause mayhem in 2017  CORD Coalition announces plans to hold a rally in Kibera over the weekend By Boniface Mithika | 10 hours ago By Jayne Rose Gacheri  | 11 hours ago By Peter Theuri | 14 hours ago By Peter Muiruri | 14 hours ago Is Orengo charting his path away from Raila?