Two children were killed and several families displaced following a heavy storm in Usenge and Got Agulu Sub-locations in Siaya County.  The windstorm that started on Friday night also blew off the roof to Fredrick Otieno’s house in Ururi before the walls collapsed on killing two children aged two and 12, and killed them instantly.  “We were lucky to survive with minor injuries after we were rescued by villagers,” said Otieno.  Witnesses and area chief Paul Olang told The Standard the stormy weather also destroyed crops.  In Got Agulu sub-location, farms were swept by floods and crops destroyed. Residents affected in Urima, Usoga and Uhundha villages appealed for aid, fearing that they would have no harvest.  Mama Keziah Obama laid to rest  Thugs kill two security guards  Family reunited with baby stolen from clinic  More TB cases recorded despite Covid stigma Jerry Mito, a resident and victim, said they had been forced to relocate to safer grounds.  “Some of us had spent more than four months in schools and churches where we camped after being displaced by floods. The situation has recurred and we are appealing to the government for help,” said Mito.  On Sunday, several commuters were stranded at Goye bridge after River Yala burst its banks, flooding sections of the road.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Isaya Onyango, a resident, said the area was likely to be cut off if the heavy rains continued. “This bridge is a disaster in waiting and we are appealing to the government to fast-track the process of repairing it,” said Onyango.  At Aram market in Rarieda, traders complained of poor sanitation. “We always have problems whenever it rains,” said Mary Adhiambo.    Focus on Cornel Rasanga, the first elect Governor of Siaya County | Person of Interest  Siaya county assembly becomes the first to unanimously pass BBI constitutional amendment bill 2020  Siaya county becomes first county to pass the BBI bill, document fate lies with MCAs By Antony Gitonga | 5 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 6 hours ago By Peterson Githaiga and Fred Kagonye | 1 day ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 3 days ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements