Singapore authorities have provisionally approved a COVID-19 breathalyser test that aims to show whether someone is infected with the coronavirus in under a minute, according to the local startup that developed the product.  Breathonix, a spin-off company from the National University of Singapore (NUS), said it is now working with the health ministry to run a deployment trial of the technology at one of the city-state's border points with Malaysia.  The breath analysis will be carried out alongside the current compulsory COVID-19 antigen rapid test.  The breath test achieved more than 90% accuracy in a Singapore-based pilot clinical trial, the company said last year.  The Health Sciences Authority's website confirmed the approval, which the company said was the first such system to secure provisional authorisation in Singapore.  India posts lowest rise in daily COVID-19 cases since April 14  Covid-19: 14 succumb to virus as 111 more people test positive  No one's safe anymore: Japan's Osaka city crumples under COVID-19 onslaught  School Calendar: State urged to plan with projected July Covid-19 peak The system uses disposable mouthpieces and is designed to ensure there is no cross-contamination. After blowing into the device, the technology assesses the chemical compounds of the breath to determine whether or not a person is infected.  Any individual screened as positive will need to undergo a confirmatory polymerase chain reaction (PCR) COVID-19 swab test, the company said.  Breathonix said it is in discussion with several local and overseas organisations to use the system, citing strong commercial interest. Other countries, including Indonesia and the Netherlands, have rolled out similar breath tests.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website!  Tracking Covid-19: Kenya records 324 new cases, 10 deaths in last 24 hours  Covid Downward Trend: Kenya records 86 new Covid-19 cases with positivity rate now at 3.1%  HEALTH WATCH: Scientists working on developing vaccine that comes in form of a pill & nasal spray By Reuters | 4 hours ago By Reuters | 1 day ago By Reuters | 2 days ago By Reuters | 2 days ago Raila lays ground for Uhuru's June 1 visit