A swimming expedition in Siyiapei River, Narok North turned tragic on Wednesday evening when two sisters drowned.  Area police boss Frederick Shiundu said the two girls, aged 15 and 12, were overwhelmed by water currents while swimming. The third child, a boy, who attempted to save the two, also drowned.  Shiundu said bodies of the girls were retrieved and taken to Narok County Referral Hospital mortuary awaiting postmortem. The search for the boy is still on.  He called on parents not to allow children to swim in the river whose water levels have been rising due to the heavy rains currently pounding the region.  Meanwhile, police in Narok South are investigating an incident where a university student was found dead in her bedroom at Ololung’a, Narok West.  Narok loses over Sh2b revenue due to Covid-19 Pandemic  Cane farmers suffer Sh50m loss in arson  Bleak future for local traders after closure of game reserve  Narok to lose Sh2b over virus Confirming the incident, Deputy County Commissioner Felix Kisalu said Moipen Sadera, 20, was found hanging by the neck at her parent’s home.  “It was reported that Moipen Sadera,20, a University of Nairobi student, died of suicide at her parents home. Her body was found hanging in the bedroom with a rope around her neck,” said Kisalu.  Kisalu said detectives from Ololung’a Police Station have visited the home and are investigating the incident.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! "We have launched investigations to establish what happened. We are also interrogating members of the victim's family as well as close friends,” said Kisalu.   Sadera's body was taken to Longisa Referral Hospital mortuary.   Taharuki bado imetandaa huko kuresoi  Mau-Narok tribal clashes leave atleast two people dead   El-Nino rains continue to wreak havoc in various parts of the country By Antony Gitonga | 5 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 13 hours ago By Irissheel Shanzu | 14 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 14 hours ago Why the cost of your breakfast is set to go up