ODM party candidate Pavel Oimeke (centre) flanked by his supporters awaiting election results in the Bonchari by-election. [Kevin Ogutu, Standard]  The Orange Democratic Movement Party leader Raila Odinga has called for an end of police brutality after the party emerged victorious in the Bonchari by-election in Kisii.  According to Raila, what was witnessed in the Bonchari and Juja by-elections is an ‘abuse of police powers and an arrogant display of impunity by a few overzealous and bellicose government functionaries.’  "An election process is an opportunity for the voters to express their will at the ballot and not an avenue to pursue imaginary and short-legged political interests. Security forces exist to serve the people and not the interests of those out to conduct political experiments."  Raila said that the peaceful co-existence post-2018 must not be taken for granted by some rogue elements wanting to confuse the handshake for an excuse to erode the country's hard-earned liberties.  By ignoring title, High Court judge disrespected President  Tallying centre chaos in Juja as MPs predict UDA win in Rurii  ODM wins closely fought Bonchari by-election  Juja by-election: Politicians kicked out as chaos erupts at Mang'u tallying centre "This must stop,” he said in a statement.  ODM’s Pavel Oimeke Obwoto declared the winner in the just-concluded Bonchari Parliamentary by-election. [Courtesy, IEBC]  The ODM candidate Eng Pavel Oimeke won the Bonchari by-election.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Oimeke garnered 8,049 votes against Jubilee's Zepedeo Opore who had 7,279 votes. UDA candidate Teresa Oroo managed 6,954 votes.  The voter turnout was 50 percent with 26,526 total votes cast.  The Constituency had 52, 955 registered voters and 103 polling stations.   Jubilee, ODM and UDA to faceoff in Bonchari and Juja by-elections on Tuesday | HOUSE OF CARDS  What does the court's verdict on BBI portend for the three top leaders, Uhuru, Ruto and Raila?  ODM leader Raila Odinga has termed as unfortunate, the ruling on BBI by a five judge bench By Josphat Thiongó | 2 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 2 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 5 hours ago By Brian Otieno and Fidelis Kabunyi | 9 hours ago Grab a copy of today's Standard & Nairobian Epaper for only 10/-