According to the law, a person who commits a sexual offence against a child should be imprisoned for at least 15 years. [File, Standard]  Chief Justice Nominee Justice Martha Koome has told a parliamentary committee vetting her she will not support a proposal to lower the age of consent to 16 years.   Appearing before the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee (JLAC) of the National Assembly on Thursday for vetting, Koome cited the rising cases of early marriages arguing it would be counterproductive to lower the age of consent.  “There is no hurry to lower the age that is internationally recognized, which is at 18 when we all want our children to be in school and we are against rising cases of early marriages,” she said.  Koome said if she becomes the country’s chief justice she will want both the age of consent and that of criminal responsibility to remain at 18.  Wajir Governor Abdi Mohamud’s impeachment trial begins next week  Otiende: My removal from JLAC has nothing to do with BBI  ODM kicks out Otiende Amollo from House team as split grows over BBI  18 Justice and Legal Affairs Committee members sign report on BBI Bill “The law states that anyone under the age of 18 is minor and a child who needs care and protection. For them, we recommend counselling them,” she said.  Judges and child welfare organisations are currently embroiled in a debate on whether to lower the age of consent.  The Court of Appeal in a recent ruling proposed the lowering of the age of consent to 16 years.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Roselyn Nambuye, Daniel Musinga and Patrick Kiage, ruled that time was ripe for the country to consider changing the Sexual Offences Act, citing lengthy jail terms imposed on young men convicted of defilement.  According to the Kenya Demographic and Health Survey, 15 per cent of women and 22 per cent of men aged between 20 and 50 had their first sexual experience by the age of 15. Nearly a quarter of Kenyan women gave birth before 18.  Proponents say lowering the age of consent will reduce the number of teenage boys convicted and jailed for “defilement” (the abuse of a child in Kenyan law) after having consensual sex with a girl.  They are concerned that aspects of the country’s Sexual Offences Act conflict with the Children’s Act, and disproportionately punish teenage boys.  The Sexual Offences Act does not make exemptions for any child found guilty of sexual offences. Children are punished as adults and remanded in custody with adults. It has no specific provisions on how to deal with a case where two minors are involved.  When he appeared before the JSC panel for the interview for the position of in April 2021, High Court Judge Said Chitembwe said, while the law found anyone who “defiled” a person under 18 guilty, the practicality of implementing the legislation needed to be reviewed.  According to the law, a person who commits a sexual offence against a child should be imprisoned for at least 15 years.  “How do you take a 19-year-old man to 15 years in jail for having a relationship with a 17-year-old girl?” he asked the panel.  The Court of Appeal in a recent ruling proposed a law change to lower the age of consent to 16 years.  Three judges, Roselyn Nambuye, Daniel Musinga and Patrick Kiage, ruled that time was ripe for the country to consider changing the Sexual Offences Act, citing lengthy jail terms imposed on young men convicted of defilement.  According to the judges, the country should discuss challenges of maturing children, morality, autonomy, protection of children and the need for proportionality in punishing sex pests.  They said the debate on lowering the age of sexual consent was long overdue as men were languishing in jail for sleeping with teens “who were willing to be and appeared to be adults”.  They made the observation in a case where they reversed a 15-year sentence slapped on a man who had impregnated a 17-year-old girl.  The judges referred to the sentences as an unfolding tragedy.  “Our prisons are teeming with young men serving lengthy sentences for having had sexual intercourse with adolescent girls whose consent has been held to be immaterial because they were under 18 years,” the judges ruled.   Judges and Magistrate Vetting Board confident to finish vetting by 15th December  Change of Guard: Kigano to chair JLAC as ODM's Otiende Amollo to deputise him  JLAC wants more resources for judiciary as case backlog rampant in lower courts By Benard Sanga and Kennedy Gachuhi  | 7 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 7 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 7 hours ago By Lydiah Nyawira and Phares Mutembei | 7 hours ago