Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua has asked the court to allow him to cross-examine an investigating officer who linked him to alleged embezzlement of more than Sh200 million.  The MP, through lawyer Kioko Kilukumi, told Justice James Wakiaga that an affidavit filed by Asset Recovery Agency (ARA) investigator Fredrick Musyoki contained damning evidence against him that can only be proved if the officer is put in the dock for grilling.  “The claims of money laundering raised against the MP are so grave and damning and needs to be proved through cross-examining the investigator. It will be unfair for any judge to make a determination based on the affidavit without subjecting the investigator to scrutiny,” said Kilukumi.  The agency is seeking to have Gachagua forfeit to the state Sh202 million in his accounts on claims that the amount was acquired through money laundering and corrupt practices.  According to ARA, Gachagua’s three personal accounts conducted a series of huge suspicious debit transactions amounting to Sh7.3 billion and a total credit of Sh12.5 billion between 2013 and 2020, which they believe are proceeds of crime.  Senior DCI officers reshuffled (list)  Senior DCI officer shoots dead security guard in Kayole  Man charged over false statement to police  IG orders probe into sexual harassment claim after female cop's viral clip Out of the huge bank transactions, the agency claimed that the MP and his business associate Anne Kimemia, trading as Jenne Enterprises Ltd, cannot explain how they acquired Sh202 million.  One of the accounts registered in Gachagua’s name at Rafiki Micro Finance Bank has Sh165 million, the second account also at Rafiki Micro Finance Bank has Sh35 million.    Take a quick survey and help us improve our website!    Bogus Degrees: DCI, EACC and IEBC to track culprits, team to hunt people with fake certificates  CROSSFIRE: Does President Uhuru need another handshake with his deputy, William Ruto? | FULL VIDEO  Former Governor Mike Sonko detained at DCI headquarters; he is to face robbery and assault charges By Mireri Junior | 3 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 6 hours ago By Kamore Maina | 7 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 8 hours ago Grab a copy of the latest Standard for only 10 shillings & access the last 10 editions for free