Police are investigating the murder of two young men whose bodies were allegedly thrown into Thika River on Sunday, May 9.  The bodies were discovered floating on the river seven days later.  On Sunday afternoon, residents of Ruburi village in Gatanga sub-county discovered a floating body on the river.  The body, which was decomposing had bruises at the wrist, a possible indication that handcuffs might have been used on him.  An hour later, not far from the first body, another lifeless body was discovered with handcuffs on the left hand.  Top police officer in hospital after collapsing at his Nairobi home  Charles who? The anatomy of a great political silencing  Police officers should up their game and bring down rising crime rate  Three arrested over failed raid on Kinamba Police Station  The two bodies were positively identified by their kin as Nicholas Maithya, 22 and Asman Kamau, 18 respectively.  Eyewitnesses at the scene of the crime claimed that the detectives in charge of the investigations had tried to hide the evidence by removing the handcuffs from the body.  “Even if they hide the evidence, we have already taken pictures,” Joseph Chege, an eyewitness said.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Gatanga sub-county police commander Benson Muchemi who spoke to Standard Digital via phone said that investigations were being conducted by the DCI.  “We cannot make any assumptions at the moment as investigations are underway,” he said.  The bodies were taken to General Kago Funeral Home in Thika awaiting postmortem.  The two were allegedly thrown into Thika River by administration Police Officers on allegations that they were illicit brewers.         Jinxed Station? Uproar over Kiptagich Police Station cited for poor relations with the public  Police holding suspect accused of allegedly raping & assaulting a 24-year-old girl, Velvine Nungari  DP Ruto calls out police for partisanship, accuses service of being used | PRESS REVIEW By Jacinta Mutura | 1 day ago By Boniface Gikandi | 2 days ago By John Mbuthia | 3 days ago By George Njunge | 4 days ago