A police officer in Congo's capital Kinshasa was beaten to death and 46 others were wounded as rival Muslim groups clashed during Eid celebrations on Thursday, a police spokesman said.  Members of two opposing camps vying for leadership positions in Congo's Muslim community sparred outside Kinshasa's Martyrs Stadium Thursday morning, where they had planned to worship together as a demonstration of unity.  "Unfortunately, there were extremists who didn’t want the two groups to pray together today," said Sylvano Kasongo, who heads the Kinshasa police.  Officers fired tear gas and warning shots to disperse the crowd. Rioters threw stones and destroyed a police cruiser.  Videos on social media showed a police officer being beaten over the head with blunt objects until he fell to the ground, after which his body was set on fire. Reuters was not able to immediately verify the contents of the video.  Coast music group that wowed Suluhu   Idd: Israel-Palestine conflict dominate celebrations  Muslims countrywide celebrate end of Ramadhan  Ousting hold-out regional governor, Congo's president tightens control Kasongo confirmed that one officer had died after being set on fire, and that 46 other people were injured.  Elsewhere in Kinshasa, a crowd marched on the home of a leader of a rival camp and set fire to several vehicles before being repelled by police.  Following the events in the capital, Eid celebrations in the eastern city of Goma were cancelled as a precautionary measure.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Congo has a relatively small Islamic community, with less than 5% of the country's 90 million people believed to identify as Muslims.    Leo ndio Ijumaa ya mwisho ya mfungo wa mwezi mtukufu wa Ramadhan, waumini walifurika misikitini  Mahojiano ya uteuzi wa Jaji Mkuu, KCSE imekamilika leo, Ramadhan na Korona | MBIU YA KTN  Holy month of Ramadhan to begin; Muslims to fast and pray for a month By Reuters | 1 day ago By Fred Kagonye | 1 day ago By Reuters | 3 days ago By Reuters | 3 days ago To celebrate BBI ruling portrays Ruto as insincere