Deputy President William Ruto at a past public function. [File, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto has broken his silence, a day after MPs including some of his allies voted overwhelming to endorse the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020  The DP on May 7, said he respects the outcome of the vote and will also respect the verdict from the Senate and finally from Kenyans during the referendum.   “Being a democracy, the National Assembly voted on the Constitution amendment Bill and so will the senate. When the people's turn comes they too will vote and we will march on,” he tweeted.  He said he will respect the decision taken by the National Assembly, Senate and Kenyans during the referendum.  Don’t make a mistake that will trouble Kenya for long  How Ruto's big numbers in House failed  I did not betray Ruto, Ngunjiri explains why he voted for BBI  BBI Bill: Wajir civil groups protest addition of 70 constituencies  “We should respect everyone's decision and accept democratic outcomes; all views make us stronger together.” He added.  Ruto and his allies have been critical of the BBI Bill which they claim is meant to create positions for some people and in the long run burden the taxpayer.  Majority of MPs on Thursday voted on the bill citing resource allocation, inclusivity and more funds to counties as some of the reasons why they have endorsed it.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! During the second stage, 320 members participated in the vote with 235 supporting the bill, 83 opposing while two abstained.  A majority of Ruto allies rejected the bill during the vote that largely took political alignment alignments in the country.  During voting in the third reading, 224 MPs voted for the bill, 63 voted against while two abstained.  The Senate is expected to vote on the bill next week.  President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga had on Wednesday asked MPs in the National Assembly and Senate to pass the bill.  In a joint statement on Wednesday, the two principals asked the parliamentarians to listen to the voice of the people.  While urging them to put aside their political differences, Uhuru and Raila said it is not the time for political adversity.  The promoters, however, will have to wait for the High court to conclude a case challenging the BBI process.   TARGETING RUTO? Pro-BBI MPs hint at impeaching the DP, leaders exude confidence after the BBI vote  Matokeo ya KCSE yatatangazwa yakiwa tayari, Mgodi wa Mauti, BBI ilipita Bungeni | MBIU YA KTN  Bumpy BBI Ride: Parliament to hold special sittings to debate the BBI report | HOUSE OF CARDS By Allan Mungai and Brian Otieno | 15 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 20 hours ago By Jennifer Anyango | 21 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 1 day ago William Ruto’s might tested after dismal show in BBI House vote