Ameru Njuri Ncheke Council of Elders Secretary-General Phares Rutere at Minni Inn Hotel in Embu town in 2017. [File, Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta has sent a message of condolence to the family, relatives, and friends of Mzee Phares Rutere who passed away today.  Until his demise, Mzee Rutere was the Chairman of the National Council of Elders and the Secretary-General of the Nchuri-Ncheke.  In his message of comfort and encouragement, President Kenyatta described Mzee Rutere as a wise, and astute elder and leader who cherished and championed national cohesion, progress and a value-driven life among Kenyans.  “The death of Mzee Rutere is a big blow to our country. Death has robbed our nation of a wise and dependable elder and wise counselor whose role in uniting the nation and inculcating life values in our youth shall be dearly missed," President Kenyatta said.  Rumble in the mountain  Nyanza's wish list to Uhuru  Uhuru pledges reforms to make farming lucrative  Man springs onto road to stop Uhuru's convoy The President said Mzee Rutere was a robust custodian of the rich African culture who tirelessly championed the utilization of culture in imparting life skills among the youth.  “We will forever be grateful to Mzee Rutere for his role in shaping the Kenyan nation through his passionate advocacy for the African culture and the arts as a vehicle for inculcating positive attitude and discipline in our youth."  The President remembered Mzee Rutere as a man of peace and a good listener, saying the departed elder worked hard to ensure Kenyans lived in harmony.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! “Mzee Rutere was at the forefront in mending cracks in our nation's co-existence and always preached the gospel of national unity and cohesion," the President said.  The Head of State prayed to God to give the family of Mzee Rutere the fortitude and strength they need during this difficult period of mourning.   Impeaching Matiang'i: Guns trained at CS Fred Matiang'i with leaders divided over impeachment plans  President Suluhu will on Tuesday begin a two-day State visit on the invitation of President Kenyatta  Kenya joins the World in marking Labour Day as workers hope for wage increment By Mactilda Mbenywe | 3 hours ago By PSCU | 3 hours ago By Moses Nyamori and Jacob Ng’etich | 3 hours ago By Kariuki Waihenya | 3 hours ago Grab a copy of the latest Standard for only 10 shillings & access the last 10 editions for free