President Uhuru Kenyatta has sent a message of condolence to the family, friends, and relatives of former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile.  In his message of comfort, the President described the late Kalembe, 57, as a witty, determined, and practical politician whose rise in life was as a result of sheer hard work.  "It is unfortunate that death has taken from us the Hon Kalembe Ndile in his prime. He was a lively politician who loved and worked with everyone, and always held the interests of the country at heart," the President said.  The Head of State recalled his interactions with the witty politician over the years saying, the late Kalembe excelled as a fighter for human rights especially the right to access land.  "With the death of Mheshimiwa Kalembe, our country has lost an astute fighter for human rights. We all remember how passionately he fought for the plight of squatters in the country," the President eulogised the former MP.  President Uhuru to launch Siaya-Bondo water project  Kalembe Ndile: Self-made leader who defended the underprivileged  Former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile dies at 57  Uhuru obeys court, revokes Jemator's nomination to IEBC panel The President wished the family of the departed politician God's grace and comfort as they come to terms with his demise.  Ndile is reported to have asked his brother to take him to the Nairobi Hospital for further treatment.  “When we found all beds were occupied at Pangani he personally instructed me to drive him to the Nairobi Hospital,” he added  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! He was diagnosed with multiple illnesses including; liver cirrhosis, cancer of the stomach, and kidney failure which necessitated medics to recommend that he be taken into theatre.  “He suffered multiple illnesses and at some point, he was wheeled to the theatre where he was supposed to undergo a correction surgery. The facility asked for blood donors and people turned up and donated blood for him. However, this didn’t succeed since his situation worsened,” Sam said.  He was taken into the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) on Saturday night where he was pronounced dead on Sunday morning.  Ndile, 57, is survived by 10 children, and six other adopted children studying in various schools.  The late politician cum a businessman was the second last born in a family of 7.  The body was transferred to Lee Funeral Home at around 11am.    Impeaching Matiang'i: Guns trained at CS Fred Matiang'i with leaders divided over impeachment plans  President Suluhu will on Tuesday begin a two-day State visit on the invitation of President Kenyatta  Kenya joins the World in marking Labour Day as workers hope for wage increment By Patrick Vidija | 1 hour ago By Patrick Vidija | 3 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo and Winfrey Owino | 4 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago How night of fun ended in a day of bullets for woman and nephew