Kasarani OCPD Peter Mwanzo listens to Bishop Jeremiah Waweru of Church of the Lord Christians of All Nations situated along Thika Road on  April 21, 2021 before arresting him for convening a service during curfew time. [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  The government has extended the 10pm to 4am curfew by another 60 days.  In a gazette notice dated May 28, 2021, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i said the hours have been extended as a result of the current spread of Covid-19 in the country.  “In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8(1) of the Public Order Act, and in view of the serious threat posed to national security and public order by the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Cabinet Secretary for Interior and Co-ordination of National Government orders that the Public Order (State Curfew) Order, No. 3 of 2021, shall apply during the hours of darkness between ten o’clock in the evening and four o’clock in the morning with effect from the 28 of May, 2021 and shall remain in effect for a period of sixty days thereof,” read part of the gazette notice.  Matiangi said during the same period, there shall be no public gatherings, processions or movement either alone or as a group except as shall be permitted, in writing by a police officer in charge of the police in a county or a police officer in charge of the police in a division/sub-county.  Covid-19: 16 deaths, 162 new cases recorded in last 24 hours  Madaraka Day still on at Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium, Kibicho  Government mum on curfew, even as 60-day cycle expires  Covid-19: Positivity rate at 8.9 per cent as infections up by 444 The CS said the Order shall not apply to those in categories classified as essential service providers.  “The Public Order (State Curfew) Order, 2021 is revoked,” he said.  On April 12, Interior Matiang’i stated, in a Gazette notice said the nationwide curfew hours would run for 60 days, starting March 29.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! The 60 days of uninterrupted curfew enforcement ended on Saturday, May 29, as per the notice.  As of 1pm on Saturday, neither the Interior Ministry nor State House communications team had informed Kenyans on what to expect.  The information vacuum left many Kenyans on social media wondering whether the status quo would remain, or the curfew observance would cease by default.  The Standard reached State House spokesperson Kanze Dena for comment.  “Wait a little bit. Communication would be made in due course,” she said.  Asked whether the communication would be available before midnight Saturday, Kanze said: “It will be available as soon as possible.”  A senior official at the Interior ministry, who spoke to The Standard in confidence, said communication on what next in regard to curfew protocols is “such a small matter”, that shouldn’t worry Kenyans.  “You can rest assured that communication would be made in due course by the ministry,” he said.  “I don’t think a person of the stature of the President would call a press conference today (Saturday, May 29) to say that the curfew is extended, removed or its enforcement hours adjusted. That will be the work of the Interior Ministry,” said the informant, who is also a member of the National Covid-19 Task Force.   Will the Government lift the ongoing countrywide curfew when it expires at midnight tonight?  Tracking Covid-19: Kenya records 324 new cases, 10 deaths in last 24 hours  Impeaching Matiang'i: Guns trained at CS Fred Matiang'i with leaders divided over impeachment plans By Patrick Vidija | 1 hour ago By Harold Odhiambo and Winfrey Owino | 4 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago By  PSCU | 6 hours ago How night of fun ended in a day of bullets for woman and nephew