Construction ongoing on the Nairobi Expressway project at Nyayo Stadium roundabout. [Stafford Ondego, Standard]  Motorists intending to use Uhuru Highway at the weekend will be forced to seek alternative routes.  The Kenya National Highway Authority (KeNHA) says it will close a section of Uhuru Highway at Nyayo Stadium from Saturday 9 pm to Monday 9 am, to allow for the installation of a culvert.  “The Contractor, who is currently undertaking culvert installation works at Nyayo Stadium, intends to commence installation of the second half of the culvert along the Nairobi Bound carriageway,” KeNHA Director General Peter Mundinia said in a statement Friday.  KeNHA says the installation will help in stormwater drainage, that will prevent further damage as witnessed during the recent heavy rains, that led to flooding and power outage in parts of the city.  Olympics pre-trials to double up as Africa Athletics Championships selections   Don’t burden motorists with costly tolling  Why you could pay Sh1,000 to use Rironi-Mau Summit road  MPs read mischief in Bill seeking to extend terms of Road Authority bosses Motorists drive along Uhuru Highway, Mombasa road near Nyayo stadium as the construction of the Nairobi Expressway is ongoing. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  The Authority has advised motorists to instead use Aerodrome Road, Baricho Road or Dunga Road to access their destinations.  It is a continued closure that will see motorists and commuters continue to bear the brunt and consume more time on the road.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! Last month, KeNHA had a similar alert of Uhuru Highway between Bunyala and Nyayo Stadium roundabouts, with a 21-day closure notice.  It was to end on May 20.  Construction of the Nairobi Expressway continues to cause traffic disruption along Mombasa Road, Uhuru Highway and Waiyaki Way.  Motorists are using Jogoo Road and South B as alternate routes into and out of the CBD.      Winfred Kimetei and Valentine Kipketer are the winners of the prestigious First Lady's Half Marathon  Je Wakenya wamejiandaa kivipi kumpokea Papa Francis?   President Uhuru Kenyatta's Speech at the 2015 Mashujaa Day Celebrations By Julius Chepkwony | 5 hours ago By Patrick Muinde | 5 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 5 hours ago By Tony Mochama | 5 hours ago Uhuru unveils major plans for Nyanza ahead of visit