The government has been urged to engage the private sector more in funding universal healthcare in the wake of Covid-19.  General Manager of General Electric (GE) Health for sub-Sharan Africa Eyong Ebai said the pandemic had demonstrated that governments alone cannot fund public health systems.  “There are two sides to the discussion and the first is in regards to supporting governments to create demand-side activity so there is appropriate funding that the supply side can then provide services to the general public,” said Mr Ebai in a recent interview.   “On the demand side, we need to focus on instruments that can share risk and typically this will be in the form of health insurance programmes that can be national health insurance schemes like in Ghana, Nigeria and South Africa,” he added.  In the upcoming 2021/2022 budget, the National Treasury has allocated Sh121 billion to the Health Ministry, representing an increase of Sh3 billion from the current financial year that ends in June.   Why the cost of your breakfast is set to go up  Ouko seeks ‘adequate’ funding of Judiciary  Inside Ukur Yatani’s Sh1.6tr borrowing plan  KRA issues notice to delete non-compliant PINs Treasury has allocated another Sh47.7 billion for the universal healthcare plan, bringing the total allocation to the country’s health sector at Sh168 billion for the 2021/2022 financial year.   However, this represents 1.7 per cent of the country’s GDP and is below the international average spending for low-income countries that stood at 6.3 per cent as of 2019.  According to Ebai, governments can also tap into regional authorities through developing state or provincial-wide health insurance schemes that will directly benefit local communities, thus easing the pressure on central governments.   Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! “The real trick for Africa is to tap into the informal sector as well as the formal sector,” he explained.  “This means everyone pays a small premium towards a pot which then goes towards providing coverage for individuals when they become unwell.”   This is especially crucial as more than 80 per cent of patients on the continent still meet trig healthcare bills through out-of-pocket payments.   Government promise to resettle IDPs  KTN Prime Business Full bulletin 17th March 2016  Signed Kenya Japan Agreement to increase energy production By Boniface Gikandi | 6 hours ago By Anne Atieno | 7 hours ago By Wainaina Wambu | 10 hours ago By XN Iraki | 11 hours ago Fatou Bensouda: ‘Big man’ Ruto gave witnesses kickbacks