Age is just but a number, the saying goes. But that is not always true for everyone. One such person is Francis Paul Kerre whose identification documents show three different ages.  Tired of the tribulations the discrepancies in his age have brought him, Kerre has moved to court to have the matter resolved once and for all.  His birth certificate and national ID show he is 70, KRA Pin Certificate 66 and his passport 60 years.  Kerre now wants these details aligned to give him a peace of mind and spare him the many questions he sometimes has to answer.  He says an earlier plea to the registrar to rectify the anomaly did not bear fruit.  African airlines could adopt Covid-19 vaccine passports by 2022 - aviation experts  How losing your KRA PIN will affect your life  Operations in passport processing department scaled down  Posta to deliver passports to Kenyans He contends that the person who prepared his birth certificate entered the wrong birth date. Court documents read that he has since confirmed the year he was born.  Kerre says he was born on October 15, 1954. This is the date in his KRA Pin certificate, which means he is 66.  “The petitioner avers that the error in the birth certificate was caused by the initial entry in his birth certificate when he was born and he has since confirmed his correct date of birth. The petitioner seeks court’s intervention to rectify his birth certificate and have the correct date of birth entered in the register and his birth certificate,” Kerre’s court papers read in part.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! In the case, he says he was issued with a birth certificate dated October 15, 1950, which makes him 70 years old. This national ID adopted this date.  In his case where he has sued the registrar of births and deaths, and the Attorney General Kihara Kariuki, Kerre says that his uncle applied for his first passport which bore the same date as his ID and birth certificate.  He left for studies in Poland and later Germany. When he renewed his passport while in Germany, his second passport indicated that he was born on October 18, 1960. The new birth date means that he is 60 years old.  “That error has persisted since then and my efforts at having the date rectified has not been successful,” he says.     Law in Kenya compels mothers to seek approval from a child’s biological father before using his name  The government has extended the acquisition of E-Passport deadline by 1 year to March 2021  Scores yet to receive form four certificates despite government's directive By Fidelis Kabunyi | 44 minutes ago By Irissheel Shanzu | 4 hours ago By Weldon Kipkemoi | 23 hours ago By Gerald Mutethia | 1 day ago Slain businessman Mohamed Bashir was building Sh1.8b prison in Somalia