The hearing of a case in which Nandi Governor Stephen Sang has been accused of destroying a tea plantation worth Sh2 million was adjourned after he failed to appear in court over Covid-19 fears. Mr Sang was expected to appear in person for the start of the hearing of the case. Prosecution had lined up four witnesses to testify against him.  The governor’s lawyer June Maasai yesterday told Senior Resident Magistrate Beryl Omollo his client had exhibited Covid-19 symptoms and was in isolation. “The accused was in close contact with the deceased when the deceased was still in hospital. He was also in contact with some relatives during the burial preparations.”   The court heard that the government had since conducted Covid-19 tests on officials and eight samples had turned positive.  The prosecution and lawyers representing the complainants in the case had protested over delays in the hearing of the case and claimed it had stalled for more than two years.  The prosecutor, Sylvester Thuo, backed the push to have the matter adjourned, but raised concerns over the slow process. “The matter was first brought to court on June 2019. It now qualifies as a backlog,” said Thuo.  COVID scare at G7 meeting after Indian delegates test positive  Sauti Sol: When the pandemic hit, we pivoted  Japan faces longer state of emergency, casting doubt on Olympics  Treasury to spend Sh26b on easing pain caused by Covid-19 The magistrate granted Sang an adjournment but directed that the court be supplied with a medical report on the governor’s health within two weeks. “The hearing date will be fixed on the next mention date,” said Omollo.     Government sets aside Ksh 7 billion for vaccines to acquire two different types of Covid-19 vaccines  Dr. Mercy Mwangangi talks on Covid-19 vaccine shortage & ARV drugs | CHECKPOINT WITH LINDA OGUTU  Dr. Mercy Mwangangi on Malaria Vaccine & Covid-19 vaccine jitters | CHECKPOINT WITH LINDA OGUTU By James Omoro | 8 hours ago By Robert Amalemba | 8 hours ago By Stanley Ongwae | 19 hours ago By Olivia Odhiambo | 2 days ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements