The Selection Panel for the appointment of commissioners of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has received over 700 applications for the four vacancies in the position of member of the IEBC.  Addressing the media this afternoon at County Hall, Nairobi, the Selection Panel Chairperson, Dr. Elizabeth Muli, said the team will proceed to collate the applications received.   “The Selection Panel shall publish the names of all the applicants whose applications were received by the close of the application period yesterday evening, together with their qualifications, in the Kenya Gazette, in two newspapers of national circulation and on the website of the Parliamentary Service Commission,” said Dr. Elizabeth Muli.  After the publication of the long list, the Selection Panel will move to short-list the applicants and thereafter publish the names of the shortlisted candidates.  “The Selection Panel shall also invite the views of the public on the suitability of the shortlisted candidates to serve in the position of member of the IEBC.”  What you need to know about the Juja by-election  Quick facts on the Bonchari by-election  Ruto, Raila and Matiang’i lock horns in Bonchari by-election  Re-start inclusive conversation to save BBI, Mudavadi says When the Selection Panel was sworn into office on April  28, 2021, the Chairperson said interviews for the shortlisted candidates were to be conducted for five days from May 31 and June 4.  The Selection Panel hopes to forward the names of successful candidates to President Uhuru Kenyatta on or about  June 9, 2021.  IEBC is currently operating with three commissioners – Chairman Wafula Chebukati and Commissioners Boya Molu and Abdi Guliye – after exit of four commissioners after the 2017 general elections.  On Thursday last week, a five-bench judge of the High Court Constitutional and Human Rights Division, while declaring the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) null and void, also issued a permanent injunction against IEBC, stopping it from organizing or conducting a referendum until proper voter registration and education is done.  The judges said IEBC lacked the quorum of carrying out its mandate, including verification of BBI signatures.  The IEBC is in the process of lodging an appeal to the Thursday High Court ruling.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website!    Chaguzi Ndogo: IEBC inaendelea kumalizia maandalizi ya chaguzi ndogo Bonchari na Juja  Limping IEBC: Court ruling sparks uncertainity with IEBC expected to conduct by-elections  "Actual results were given to Kenyans...that is what is in the servers," CS Mucheru on IEBC servers By Grace Ng'ang'a | 34 minutes ago By PSCU | 1 hour ago By Moses Nyamori | 3 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 8 hours ago Read The Standard uninterrupted with no advertisements