Justice Martha Koome is on the verge of becoming the first female Chief Justice of Kenya. This is if members of the National Assembly approve a report by the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee (JLAC) that vetted her last week recommending her appointment as CJ.  Speaker Justin Muturi has convened a special sitting today for MPs to either approve or reject her nomination.  Sources within the committee chaired by Muturi Kigano confided to The Standard of a unanimous approval of Justice Koome in what now puts her a heartbeat away from succeeding former Chief Justice David Maraga.  Should the House approve her nomination, the President would proceed to appoint her to the office, subsequently making her debut as the first female CJ.  The president had forwarded Koome’s name to Parliament on April 28 for vetting after she was nominated by the Judicial Service Commission (JSC).  Parliament to debate Justice Koome’s CJ nomination  Justice Koome: Age of sexual consent remain at 18  What if the BBI voting in parliament was by secret ballot?  House team to vet Koome for Chief Justice position In a gazette notice dated May 17, Muturi notified members of the special sitting that will take place in the morning and afternoon session.  “The House is hereby notified of the following business: Notice of motion and consideration of Special Motion for the approval of appointment of a Chief Justice,” states the notice.  During her vetting, Koome highlighted her plans to make the Judiciary more accessible and efficient.  Take a quick survey and help us improve our website! The Court of Appeal Judge said she nurtured her vision for the Judiciary for many years, exemplified by her bid for the deputy CJ’s post twice.  She promised an assessment of the Judiciary, the human resource and structures to enhance accountability.  “My vision for the Judiciary stems from what is in the Constitution. The Constitution is a progressive instrument that requires that the administration of justice is always responsive to the needs of Kenyans,” she said.  She described herself as “liberal and progressive” and proposed a round-table meeting to come up with structured rules of engagements between the arms of government.  “I will do whatever the Constitution requires me to do. If it requires me to come and sit here and answer to this august committee, I will do so,” she said, in response to a question on whether she would appear before a parliamentary committee.  The House will also debate on a motion of approval of Tax Income Exemptions for Japanese Companies, Japanese Consultants and Japanese Employees, approval of National Drought Emergency Fund Regulations, approval of Income Tax Exemptions for Airlines having specified Government shareholding among other motions.  mnyamori@standardmedia.co.ke           Section of leaders divided on the next step forward concerning the constitutional amendment process  Intrigues of the BBI bill, as the clock ticks on the process of amending the 2010 constitution  Speaker Muturi says National Assembly will convene once a request is formally made By Grace Ng'ang'a | 34 minutes ago By PSCU | 1 hour ago By Daniel Chege | 8 hours ago By Peter Theuri | 9 hours ago ODM man Pavel Oimeke wins closely fought Bonchari by-election