A meeting between the Mount Kenya Foundation and One Kenya Alliance (OKA) principals planned for today has been postponed to next week.  Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kanu chairman Gideon Moi and Moses Wetang'ula of Ford Kenya were scheduled to meet business tycoons from Mt Kenya to chart the region’s economic future.  The engagement will now take place on October 7, according to a statement by Foundation Director of Communications Joe Murimi.  On Tuesday the group hosted ODM leader Raila Odinga at the Safari Park Hotel, Nairobi.     Opposition leaders now hint at joint presidential ticket  Of elections and Kenya’s tribal foolishness   Raila Odinga wins Mt Kenya top guns' goodwill  Raila Odinga swims in unfamiliar waters MKF is an exclusive club of billionaires who have in the past influenced elections.  There is speculation that President Uhuru Kenyatta is managing his succession after he met OKA principals, who, except Mr Wetang'ula, have declared interest in the presidency.  Equity Bank former chairman Peter Munga, former Kenya Revenue Authority Commissioner General Michael Waweru and former Kenya Airports Authority chairman George Muhoho are some of the big shots in the group.  Former Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru, also a member of the MKF board, acts as the link between politicians and the group.  “We wanted to hear what plans Raila has for Mt Kenya. You know we were very instrumental in Kibaki and Uhuru’s presidency and we are taking keen interest on individuals seeking to succeed Uhuru,” said Waweru.  Raila attended the meeting after a tour of Mt Kenya where he met governors Ndiritu Muriithi (Laikipia), Lee Kinyanjui (Nakuru), James Nyoro (Kiambu) and Francis Kimemia (Nyandarua).  “We discussed expanding local economic opportunities through the creation of sustainable institutional approach. The growth of the economy must be supported by sound institutional support and not tokenism,” said Kimemia, the Central Kenya Economic Bloc chairman.    Raila Odinga has given the clearest indication yet that he is ready to work with One Kenya Alliance  Senator Gideon Moi calls upon the Mt. Kenya region leaders to join the One Kenya Alliance  Uasin Gishu ANC members back Musalia to be the presidential flagbearer of One Kenya Alliance By Julius Chepkwony | 5 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 5 hours ago By Moses Nyamori and Mireri Junior | 5 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 5 hours ago