A vehicle belonging to Nominated MP Wilson Sossion (right) that was stoned by rowdy youth in Bomet Town. [Gilbert Kimutai, Standard]  Nominated Member of Parliament Wilson Sossion’s vehicle was stoned by rowdy youth in Bomet on Friday.  Sossion has expressed interest in the Bomet senatorial seat in the 2022 General Election.  The former Kenya National Union of Teachers (KNUT) Secretary-General will face off against the incumbent Dr. Christopher Langat in the polls. Both are eyeing the legislative seat on a United Democratic Alliance (UDA) ticket.  Langat and Sossion have been traversing the county in early campaigns.  IEBC should review voter education curriculum  Wilson Sossion defects from ODM with hope of winning seat  Wilson Sossion: Why I’m leaving ODM  Sossion ditches Raila for DP Ruto While on the campaign trail in Bomet Town at 6pm on Friday, Sossion’s vehicle was stoned by rowdy youth. The former trade unionist was with Nominated Member of Parliament David Sankok during the incident. Both lawmakers escaped the attack unscathed.  However, the windows of Sossion’s vehicle, a Toyota Land Cruiser Prado, were shattered during the incident. A group of youth chanting Senator Langat’s name were linked to the attack.  Sossion said he won’t report the matter to the police, claiming his opponents were engaging in sideshows to derail his campaigns.  On October 10, Sossion announced that he had shifted allegiance from ODM to UDA, saying he was rooting for Deputy President William Ruto in the 2022 presidential contest.  On Friday, during the campaign trail in Bomet, Sossion said he was confident that Ruto would win the 2022 presidential race.  Senator Langat distanced himself from the attack on Sossion’s convoy, saying he was “not the type of person to stage violent protests against my political opponents”.  “Police should expedite investigations into the attack on Sossion’s convoy and bring the perpetrators to book,” he said.  Football Kenya Federation (FKF) South Rift branch chairperson, David Bunei, former MCA Aurelia Rono and KANU Secretary-General Nick Salat have also expressed interest in the Bomet senatorial seat.   Discussion with KNUT secretary-general, Wilson Sossion on re-opening of schools as pandemic surges  Discussion with KNUT secretary general, Wilson Sossion on re-opening of schools as pandemic surges  Is CBC dead? Wilson Sossion's sentiments on education in Kenya By  Julius Chepkwony and Nikko Tanui  | 5 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 6 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 12 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 14 hours ago