The incident happened in Githurai, Kiambu County on Tuesday, police said. [File, Standard]  Police in Kiambu County have launched a hunt for a 24-year-old man who allegedly killed his mother and injured his twin brother on Tuesday morning.  Mary Wanja, 47, died after she was stabbed twice – in the neck and arm. The incident happened at 3am in Githurai, where the twin brothers live.  Ruiru DCI officer Justus Ombati told The Standard that Wanja had travelled from Murang’a to Githurai to visit her twin sons, when a dispute arose between her and one of the children.  “The suspect, Erick Kamau, left home on Monday 6pm. When he returned at 3am Tuesday, he picked a fight with his mother. During the dawn exchange, Kamau picked a kitchen knife and stabbed his mother in the neck and arm, killing her on the spot,” said Ombati.  Third building collapses in Kiambu in two months  Nine-storey building collapses in Kiambu [Photos]  Ruiru building under construction collapses  Senate inquiry into murder of Stutchbury to take more time According to the DCI officer, Erick also stabbed his twin brother, Derick Kamau, in the abdomen when Derick attempted to shield their mother from the attacks by the suspect.  Derick is receiving treatment at St. Francis Community Hospital in Kasarani.  Ombati says preliminary investigations indicate the suspect “has mental problems”.  Erick fled the scene after allegedly committing the crime, police said. Wanja’s body was moved to Kenyatta University Teaching, Referral and Research Hospital morgue.  Elsewhere, in Maguguni, Thika East in Kiambu County, bodies of two girls, who drowned in Athi River on Sunday, October 17, have been retrieved.  Ngoliba area police boss Namutai Kutima said the girls have been identified as Wanjiku Mbugua, 12, and Hilda Wanjiru, 11.  Wanjiku and Wanjiru had gone to swim in Athi River, where they drowned.  Wanjiru’s mother, Lilian Njeri, told The Standard that she returned home at 2pm Sunday, but did not find her daughter in the house.  “At 6pm, I was informed that she and her friend had gone to Athi River to swim. The two, however, did not return home. On the river banks, were the girls’ clothes. After several hours’ search, the bodies of my daughter and that of her friend were retrieved,” she said on Tuesday.  The girls’ bodies were moved to General Kago Funeral Home in Thika.   Polisi huko Ruiru wanamtafuta mwanamume mmoja anayeshukiwa kumdunga kwa kisu na kumuua mkewe  Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death By Jefitha Mwai | 12 hours ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 16 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 1 day ago By Winfrey Owino | 1 day ago