Six people perished in a road accident at Rombo area of Loitoktok on Wednesday evening.  The six including a mother and her two daughters were heading to Kwa Maji village in a private vehicle before the driver lost control, hitting a sewer line concrete before the vehicle overturned.  The driver of the vehicle Geoffrey Musyoki was pronounced dead on the spot with the other five passengers succumbing to injuries at the Loitoktok Subcounty Hospital.    Road deaths worrying  Police: Man ferrying bhang fled crash scene  Five die in separate road accidents in Naivasha  21-year-old man kills two women in hit-and-run accident According to a police report booked at Loitoktok police station, the accident occurred at around 8pm and the vehicle was extensively damaged.  The six have since been positively identified by family members.   The vehicle has been towed at the Loitoktok police station and the bodies were taken to the Loitoktok Subcounty Hospital.   In recent years, the national government has undertaken massive infrastructural development that has led to the upgrade of major roads and bridges, but this has not reduced the frequency or number of accidents.  In August, six people died after they were involved in a road accident in the Greenstead area in Mbaruk on the Nairobi-Nakuru highway.  Nakuru East Sub County Police Commander Elena Kabukuru said the evening accident involved a 14-seater matatu and a lorry.  "Five people including the driver of the matatu died on the spot while another died while receiving treatment at Nakuru Level Five Hospital. Two others are receiving treatment," said Kabukuru.  Those injured have been rushed to the Rift Valley General Hospital.  The accident came as residents have oftentimes called for speed bumps at blackspots to reduce the number of accidents.   Over 60,000 residents in Kajiado County to benefit from the Oloitoktok water and Sewerage project  4 people died in a road accident after personal car collided with a lorry along Machakos-Kitui road  7 dead in road accident in Kisumu after Sugarcane truck rammed into matatu and another car By Antony Gitonga | 6 hours ago By Irissheel Shanzu | 7 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 10 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 12 hours ago