Kirinyaga Women Representative has shown interest in the Governor seat on a UDA ticket. [Courtesy]  Kirinyaga Women Representative, Wangui Ngirici has reacted to Governor Anne Waiguru’s shift to Deputy President William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party.  Earlier today, Waiguru together with 25 Members of Kirinyaga County Assembly visited the DP’s Karen residence from where her shift of allegiance was publicised.  In an exclusive interview with The Standard, Ngirici (DP’s longtime supporter in the county) welcomed Waiguru to their party, saying she didn’t mind competition.  “I think it is good to have competition. If you don't compete, how do you know your strengths? But I have seen things on the ground and I know nothing is going to change,” she said in a phone interview.  Military Coup In Sudan  Sudan capital locked down after coup triggers deadly unrest  DP Ruto: Waiguru is bold for joining UDA  Jubilee and UDA politics to play out in Mahoo by-election When asked whether she felt betrayed by Waiguru’s arrival at the party despite his unwavering support for Ruto, she was quick to note that she had information before the meeting day came.  “I don’t feel betrayed. This is because the DP actually informed me about the meeting yesterday. He even invited me to come but I couldn’t make it because I was in Mombasa,” she responded.  Then added, “I wish them well and I will continue to focus on my responsibilities as a lawmaker in Kirinyaga County,”.  On Tuesday, October 26 morning, Governor Waiguru's communication confirmed her move to UDA after meeting the DP at his official residence in Nairobi.  “I have asked if it is betrayal if I moved? But the message I have gotten is that you must be careful to stay relevant in politics. The people are the ones who decide for you. When they decide you stand, you will do it.  And the people of Kirinyaga have spoken,” she noted.  In September, she had hinted at seeking re-election on a UDA ticket after a roadside gathering she was addressing in Mwea promised to re-elect her if she vied on a UDA ticket.  “Which political party do you want me to seek re-election on?", to which the majority chanted "UDA".  However, pundits say her defection introduces a political battle between her and Ngirici, who had long expressed interest in vying for the governor seat on a UDA ticket.   MBIU YA KTN[1]: Usajili kura Makueni, Siasa Chamani jubilee na Kilio Cha Wakulima  Musalia Mudavadi is expected in Meru county in his heightened political activities to woo the region  Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao By Betty Njeru | 4 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 5 hours ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 6 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 9 hours ago