Collaborations, partnerships and synergies are key drivers through which the Kenyan food system can achieve transformative growth. Food is affected and affects other sectors of the economy. As such, issues about food cannot be managed through a silo approach.  The linkages from input sourcing, production, processing and marketing involve multiple players who are not necessarily directly linked to food production, but who have a profound influence on food and nutrition security.  Therefore, it is vital to address challenges and gaps in the agriculture sector through implementation of programmes informed by policy and strategic frameworks developed after engagement with stakeholders across various sectors.  Looking at the agriculture sector growth and transformation strategy flagships, some of the key drivers include creating an enabling environment through the right policy frameworks, application of digital tools, inclusion of all groups especially the marginalised, as well as ensuring sustainability in relation to the environment. Research into and industrialisation of the sector are also critical.  The key players of Kenya’s food system transformation are to be found across government ministries and private sector institutions. As such, expertise to address the challenges within the food system ought to be sourced through inter-ministerial and cross-cutting collaborations. Solutions to challenges in one sector can be found through actions of another. As policies and interventions are developed, it will be important to embrace cross-sector engagement.  Standard Group hailed for best practices when pandemic struck  Covid-19 cases up by 130 in Kenya in the last 24 hours  S.Korea to vaccinate pregnant women as it races to 80% target for adults  Pandemic worsened depression among children, youth However, while deliberate inclusion is advisable, we should acknowledge that different players have different interests. It is, therefore, important to develop a common goal and shared vision that all sectors can rally behind. Ultimately, the food system is a shared one that is embedded in a shared space in terms of policy, economic, legal, natural and social environments.  With a well-structured framework and a shared vision, different players can appreciate their roles and how they contribute to and within the system as clear lines of collaboration are crafted.  The challenges faced in the food system cannot be solved by one player. When we look at these challenges, such as low farm productivity, weak market linkages, low investments, information asymmetry and misinformation, low profitably, diet-related health challenges, low interest by the youth, poor storage facilities and scarce agro-processing facilities among others, then we see that these challenges do not belong to one particular sector. Rather, we have gaps and leakages across various parts of the wider food system, from land degradation and climate change to weak regulatory frameworks.  The Covid-19 pandemic has also created new bottlenecks. This has reinforced the need to rethink how our food system works. The ripple effects of the pandemic cut across several sectors, for instance affecting the hospitality industry, widening the gender divide and increasing the need for digital and technological innovations in the food system.  It has also disrupted the transport sector and negatively impacted access to food. For instance, the price as well as consumption of food were affected negatively. Therefore, while building back, it will be important that all relevant actors are engaged in the transformation journey of our food system.  Recent dialogues that have been taking place as a build-up to the United Nations Food Systems Summit have confirmed the need for a multisectoral approach in addressing food and nutrition security. During these engagements, stakeholders have echoed the need to build back better for inclusive, resilient and sustainable food systems.       Ministry of Health receives 180,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine as a donation from Gov't of Greece  HEALTH WATCH: How Covid-19 misinformation worldwide has created panic by misleading masses  KEMRI makes a breakthrough in the fight against Covid-19 by developing a Virus Transport Media (VTM) By Babere Kerata Chacha | 9 hours ago By Editorial | 9 hours ago By Kalangi Kiambati | 9 hours ago By Editorial | 1 day ago