KenGen and the Nairobi Metropolitan Services have partnered to develop a waste powered energy plant in Nairobi.   KenGen Managing Director Rebecca Miano said the project would enhance a circular economy approach in managing voluminous waste generated daily in the city. “This can be a major source of energy for residents,” she said.  She said KenGen, with an installed capacity of 1,818MW, was the leading electricity generating company in Eastern Africa.   “Of this, 86 per cent is from renewable and clean energy sources... KenGen has supplied about 72 per cent of the electricity consumed in Kenya,” she said. She added that KenGen was at the forefront in mitigating climate change, in line with Kenya’s commitment to reduce Green House Gas (GHG) emission by about 32 per cent by 2030.   “KenGen, in support of the SDGs, is implementing six Clean Development Mechanism projects, with three of them based in Olkaria,” she said.  How graft, dirty deals sank Kenya Power   Nairobi residents to get free eye screening and cataract surgeries  Woman whose baby was cradled by Uhuru in Kibra speaks  Uhuru Park's closure upsets holidaymakers  Meanwhile, Environment and Forestry CS Keriako Tobiko accused G20 countries for failing to commit themselves to address climate change as the world suffers from unpredictable weather patterns.  “Eighty per cent of global carbon emissions are produced by cities from the G20 countries, which have failed to upscale their mitigation measures,” he said after a visit to the Olkaria power plant. Tobiko said the countries had promised Sh100 billion every year since 2009, but this had not been fulfilled.    Wind farm operated by KenGen, is one of the main reasons why people like to visit Ngong Hills  NMS carry out another trial run at the Green Park bus terminus to assess the level of preparedness  NMS ikishirikiana na ofisi ya msemaji wa serikali yazindua rasmi utoaji wa chanjo ya Korona, Nairobi By Betty Njeru | 1 hour ago By Wainaina Wambu | 5 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 5 hours ago By Joackim Bwana | 6 hours ago