A peace initiative has been launched along the Baringo-Samburu common border to promote harmonious existence between communities living in the region.  The area has been plagued by perennial clashes over dwindling pasture and retaliatory attacks between the Pokot and Samburu communities.  On Saturday, October 9, leaders and herders from the two communities met in Malaso area, Samburu Central to calm down the increasing tension among the herders.  This is after five people were reportedly shot dead, and others injured after livestock was stolen in three separate attacks at Morijo and Porro areas in Samburu County within a week.  Led by Samburu Governor Moses Lenolkulal, the leaders urged the herders to put aside their tribal differences and coexist peacefully. Others present were MPs William Kamket (Tiaty), Naisula Lesuuda (Samburu West), Samburu North's Alois Lentoimaga, Samburu woman representative Maison Leshoomo and area MCAs.  West Pokot County Assembly Speaker locked out of chambers (Photos)  Kenyan athlete Hosea Mwok: Tributes flow for fallen star  'Kwara Kwara' dance banned in West Pokot over immorality, early pregnancies   Kenyan athlete Hosea Mwok dies in West Pokot “It's good that we hold such meetings before things get out of hand and that's why we are here as leaders,” Lesuuda said.   Kamket asked people from Samburu and Pokot communities to live in peace and called on their elders to facilitate the recovery of livestock stolen from each community.  “We are disappointed by the incident, where a man and his son were killed. Stolen cattle can be recovered but lost lives cannot be restored,” Lenolkulal said.  Samburu Deputy County Commissioner, John Otieno said the government is supporting leaders and community elders in initiating programmes that will lead to peace across the sub-county.  Area County Commissioner, Abdrisak Jaldesa said a series of peace meetings have been lined up with the aim of building trust and promoting peace between the communities.  On Sunday, elders from Samburu community met in a separate meeting at Soit Pus area in Samburu County to deliberate on how to improve security across the county.    Tension high along Isiolo-Samburu border following clashes between rival herders from two counties  140 students from poor backgrounds drawn from Samburu and Marsabit counties land scholarships  Bomu iliyokuwa ikisubiri kulipuka yapatikana katika eneo la Soit Pus kaunti ya Samburu By Julius Chepkwony | 1 hour ago By Sara Okuoro | 1 hour ago By Julius Chepkwony | 13 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 18 hours ago