Agnes Tirop died aged 25. [Courtesy]  On Wednesday, October 13, news broke that the holder of women’s 10km world record, Agnes Jebet Tirop, had been killed.  Tirop succumbed to stab injuries at her home in Iten, Elgeyo Marakwet County.  It is suspected her ex-lover killed her.  The athlete’s father reported her missing two days ago.  Police undecided on where to arraign husband of dead runner Tirop  Kenyan female athletes conquer the world but suffer at home  Suspected child killer Masten Wanjala is dead  Agnes Tirop's mother speaks about losing a champion President Uhuru Kenyatta led Kenyans in mourning the 25-year-old.  “It is painful that Agnes, a Kenyan hero by all measures, painfully lost her young life through a criminal act perpetuated by selfish and cowardly people,” said the Head of State.  “I urge our law enforcement agencies led by the National Police Service to track down and apprehend the criminals responsible for the killing of Agnes so that they can face the full force of the law,” he added.  Track Performance:  · September 2021: Won 10km women race (WR 30:01) – Road to Records, Herzogenaurach, Germany. She set a world record that had stood since 2002.  · July 2021: Finalist Olympic Games, Tokyo Japan (Position Four).  · 2019: Bronze Medalist, 10000m IAAF World Championships in Athletics, Khalifa Doha, Qatar.  · 2017: Bronze Medalist, 10,000m IAAF World Championships in Athletics, London Great Britain.  · 2015: Won senior Women’s race Guiyang IAAF World Cross Country Championships, China.  · 2013: U20 Race IAAF World Cross Country Championships, Myslecinek Park, Bydgoszcz, Poland.   Police in Kitengela arrested a bodaboda operator over the kidnapping & murder of an 8-year-old girl  Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Kitendawili cha Kifo: Mwili wa Bashir Mohammed wapatikana hospitali ya Kerugoya hapo jana By Jael Mboga | 5 days ago By Brian Okoth | 10 days ago By Winfrey Owino | 12 days ago By Brian Okoth | 16 days ago