Lawyer Evans Monari when he represented Maj Gen (Rtd) Hussein Ali at ICC.   Evans Monari, one of the lawyers in President Uhuru's legal team at ICC is dead.  Family spokesman Ken Monari said the late died on Monday night at the Nairobi Hospital’s Intensive Care Unit after a long illness.  Monari is said to have battling multiple complications of his internal organs.  The deceased is an advocate of the High Court of Kenya and was a Partner in Coulson Harney, Advocates where he was the Head of Dispute Resolution and Arbitration.  I mourn my Law School prefect, CJ Koome on lawyer Evans Monari  New CBC teacher will allow pupils to take the lead in learning process  ICC rejects Gicheru request to suspend hearing tomorrow over ‘unfair’ judge  Why lawyer Paul Gicheru wants ICC judge Samba disqualified from case Monari is among lawyer that handled high profile criminal briefs.  He represented former Police Commissioner Hussein Ali who faced Crimes Against Humanity Charges in The Hague-based International Criminal Court (ICC) arising from the 2007-08 post-election violence in Kenya.  Monari has been the co-vice chair of the International Bar Association Africa Forum, representing the Law Society on the Board of the Council for Law Reporting.  President Uhuru Kenyatta has sent a message of condolence to Monari's family.  In his message of comfort, the President mourned the departed lawyer as a solid and dependable legal mind who leaves behind a rich legacy of professional success.  "It is regrettable that we've lost Evans to the cruel hand of death after a long illness. He was one of our country's leading lawyers who distinguished himself as a dependable resource as seen from his successes," the President mourned.  Alongside his stellar legal practice, lawyer Monari served in several public appointments among them the 2016 Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) selection panel.  The Head of State wished the family of the departed lawyer God's comfort as they come to terms with his passing away.   Karim Khan achukua kiapo cha afisi ya ICC, ana kibarua kikubwa kinachomsubiri  New ICC Boss: British human rights lawyer Karim Khan elected as new ICC prosecutor  Sonko aachiliwa kwa dhamana ya shillingi laki tatu kwenye kesi kumi za kuwajeruhi watu na wizi By Brian Otieno | 40 minutes ago By Brian Okoth | 1 hour ago By Winfrey Owino | 2 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 2 hours ago