Timothy Mwandi Muumbo. [Courtesy]  At the prime of his life, Timothy Mwandi Muumbo was a big fish in police fraternity, having trained at Scotland Yard, United Kingdom in mid-50's.  A burly figure, Muumbo bestrode the country's police units like a colossus. He joined the force in 1951 after his primary schooling in Kyome and Itoloni primary schools and Government School in Kitui for his secondary education.   After leaving Scotland Yard in 1959, Muumbo served in Moyale, Marsabit, Kericho, Nyeri, Kakamega, Kisumu, Mombasa and Narok before he was appointed a senior superintendent of police and posted to the Office of the President in 1992. He was soon thereafter appointed Nairobi Provincial Police boss.  "He contributed to many reforms that have now become common-place, especially in the traffic department. He is credited with the design and construction of the current Motor Vehicle Inspection Unit in Nairobi's Industrial Area," his burial booklet read.  Muumbo 'lion of Nzatani' dogged by court cases even in death   UK eases entry rules for Kenyans seeking to work in the country   UK eases entry rules for Kenyans seeking to work in the country   First batch of UK-given Covid vaccines arrives In the obituary which was prepared for one of his intended burials, Muumbo was credited with upgrading of Malakisi police post to a full police station, chairing various secondary school boards among them Ngara girls and championing the construction of Pumwani DO's office, Kariakor DC's office and construction of Kathiani Girls secondary school.  He retired in 1989 but soon thereafter, found a parastatal placement as board member of Kenya Tourist Corporation in 1992.   "He has finally rested, guided by his faith and by the light of those he loved and lost. At last he is with them once more, leaving those of us who have for long grieved his passing with the memories he gave, the good he did, the dreams he kept alive," the obituary prepared for August 29, 2020 burial said.  It had numerous photos of the lion of Nzatani in his various elements; from a young cadet, to family studio photos of the 70's, at his prime in social scenes to a grand old man surrounded by grandsons in his sunset years.   "In all, we see a single, enduring image of a gallant soldier sailing into the winds, ready for what storms may come, carrying on toward some new and wondrous place just beyond the horizon," the family said of him.   Julius Court, UK Deputy High Commissioner to Kenya talks on the Global Education Summit  Kanisa la AIC Milimani laandaa ibada ya kumkumbuka mwendazake Rais Moi huko Kabarnet  Megan & Harry's big announcement, duo stepped back from Royal Duties | Hot Topics By Ndungu Gachane | 10 minutes ago By Kamau Muthoni | 40 minutes ago By Moses Nyamori | 6 hours ago By Wainaina Ndung'u and Jephitha Mwai | 6 hours ago