Two families are in mourning after their kin were involved in separate disputes over a memory card in Nairobi and Busia, police say.  The two deceased persons, a 21 and a 19-year-old, were allegedly attacked by their close friends for demanding to re-possess their storage devices.  According to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI), one of the incidents that took place in Busia saw the suspect (George Oduori) attack 21-year-old Owino with a machete after he went to get his device on October 2 at 9 pm.  “When he went to demand his memory card, Oduori was so incensed that he killed Owino on the spot and buried his remains at a shallow grave in his farm, under the cover of darkness,” the detectives’ statement read in part.  Nicholas Abinya: Life in the shadow of cancer   Haji says no proof judge plotted to kill Cohen  2021 Nostalgia Street: When Nairobi truly was city in the sun  Man kills neighbour for mocking his intimacy skills The investigators allege that Oduori might have developed an attachment with the memory card, that he could not bear parting with it, opting to kill its owner instead.  It took a week for the suspect’s wife to report the incident to the police.  The suspect is in custody as the police process exhumation and subsequent autopsy of the body.  Elsewhere in Nairobi's Huruma area, a high school student was allegedly stabbed to death by a friend when he (deceased) demanded his memory card last night.  “The Form three student at Huruma's Brainiac Secondary School succumbed to two stabs on the head and the third one at his chest, when his assailant who was unwilling to give back the storage device brandished a knife and attacked him,” detectives say.  Members of the public found the 19-year-old, rushed him to a local hospital, where he died while undergoing treatment.  The police are hunting the suspect who fled the scene after the incident occurred.   KENHA urges Kenyans plying the Nairobi-Nakuru highway to use alternative routes  Nairobi residents decry over Central Business District mugging, they want the police to intervene  Nguvu za KANU: Tawi la Nairobi la Kanu lakutana kujadili mikakati watakayotumia 2022 By Stephen Rutto | 35 minutes ago By Gilbert Kimutai | 19 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 20 hours ago By Collins Kweyu | 22 hours ago