Ezra Chiloba receives instruments of power from Mercy Wanjau who held the position previously, but in an acting capacity. [Courtesy]  Former Chief Executive at the Independent and Electoral Boundaries Commission (IEBC), Ezra Chiloba, has officially taken over as the Director-General of Communications Authority of Kenya (CA), six days after his appointment.  Chiloba received the instruments of power from her predecessor Mercy Wanjau who formerly held the position in an acting capacity.  “Mr Ezra Chiloba has today formally received the instruments of office as the CA Director-General from his predecessor, the outgoing acting Director-General Mrs Mercy Wanjau, as he settles down for the task ahead,” CA said in a Facebook post.  Chiloba was appointed DG by the authority’s Board of Directors in a memo dated September 28, a position he will hold for the next four years.  Nairobi's fuel dispensers replace charcoal, kerosene with biofuel  Nairobi Expressway: Haile Selassie-UoN Roundabout stretch to be opened on October 15  Sirma faces auction over Sh6m debt accrued during election petition  Budget: Electoral agency must be more than just a money train In a statement, the authority’s Board chairman Kembi Gitura said the appointment was the result of a competitive recruitment process following the retirement of the former Director-General, Francis Wangusi.  “The Board wishes to thank Mercy Wanjau, who has been acting in the position of Director-General of the Authority. Chiloba’s appointment takes effect immediately,” Kembi’s statement read in part.  Prior to his exit at the IEBC, Chiloba was suspended by IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati following procurement queries at the electoral commission which he challenged in court.  Months later, he penned his resignation letter to the commission.   ODM’s attempt to oust Chebukati from IEBC elicits mixed reactions | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  KENHA urges Kenyans plying the Nairobi-Nakuru highway to use alternative routes  Nairobi residents decry over Central Business District mugging, they want the police to intervene By PSCU | 2 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 3 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura | 5 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 6 hours ago