George Agusa with his wife Mary and a relative in a photo album. George, a gospel singer killed his wife before hanging himself at Nyabomite in Nyamira County. [Stanley Ongwae, Standard]  A gospel musician and his wife were found dead at their home.  The body of George Agusa, 50, was found dangling on a piece of cloth, while that of his wife Mary, 45, lay in a pool of blood in their bedroom.  The incident occurred on Wednesday morning. A suicide note was reportedly found at the scene in which Agusa claimed to have killed his wife before hanging himself over "his troubled marriage".  In the suicide note, Agusa claimed an MCA aspirant had been having an extra-marital affair with his wife.  Deaths on reunion day: Inside Kiambu couple’s troubled love life  Kiambu: Man, wife found dead in their house with gunshot wounds  Deaths on reunion day: Inside Kiambu couple’s troubled love life  Kiambu: Man, wife found dead in their house with gunshot wounds In the note addressed to his children, the singer cited a day when the wife hit him with a cup on the face after he asked her about the secret love affair.  According to a relative who sought anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter, the couple has had marital problems for the past three months.  On Wednesday morning, the woman was seen running away from their home, but the man gave chase and dragged her back home.  Inside their semi-permanent house, a sound system which the man used stood at one corner.  “Take care of the music tools. Use the sound system to preach,” the suicide note said.  Nyamira South Sub-County Commander Moses Kirong said investigations into the deaths have been launched.  Police recovered a machete and a knife from the scene.   Gospel Singer Emmy Kosgei talks about her life in 2019 and expectations for 2020  A 73 year old Kiambu woman found dead, neighbours link son to murder  Bringing hope to Cancer survivors through music, Gospel Singer Victor Mbuvi releases new song By Winfrey Owino | 8 hours ago By Erick Abuga | 9 hours ago By Erick Abuga | 14 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 22 hours ago