The Drought Management Authority issued a drought alert in the arid and semi-arid counties in July this year. The counties now hard hit by drought include Turkana, Mandera, Garissa, Wajir, Baringo, Kilifi, Tana River, Kwale, Marsabit, Kitui, Kajiado and Isiolo.  By the time of the alert was issued, more than two million people were already facing starvation and needed emergency food supplies. As would be expected, the drought triggered inter-communal resource-based conflicts caused by dwindling pasture and water. The bad news is that the drought is projected to last through to November.  The average rainfall in most of Arid and Semi Arid Lands in the month of June was documented as less than 50 per cent of average rainfall, with the northern east region receiving below 25 per cent of average rainfall. ?Drought is not a new phenomenon in Kenya. But while its ravages can be mitigated by advance planning through continuous monitoring of these prone areas, it baffles that the government is often caught flat-footed. It seems like our policymakers have been completely unable to learn from past experiences and prepare for such eventualities.   Instructively, Turkana, one of the most affected counties, sits atop one of the largest replenishable underground water reservoirs in Africa, estimated to hold 250 billion cubic metres of water.  A caring government would have exploited this resource to promote irrigation-driven agriculture. Building water pans and dams is one of the surest ways of keeping our agricultural production going.  Pastoralists lose livestock as drought ravages Tana Delta  Take driver's seat on climate action, CS tells architects  Good harvest expected in parts of Kilifi amid biting drought  What we need to do to ensure Kenyans don’t die of hunger during the pandemic To beat the negative effects of drought, it is incumbent upon the the government to come up with policies and support systems that will ?encourage water harvesting during the rainy season.  We can learn from Japan that has the world’s largest underground water tank which also serves as a flood diversion facility.   Drought in Mandera: Famiiies facing starvation in Mandera with hundreds of livestock dead  Drought Mitigation: Pastoralists in Turkana call for intervention, they say drought is looming  FOOD SECURITY - Africa's effort in reducing dependency on food imports By Editorial | 5 hours ago By Editorial | 1 day ago By Editorial | 2 days ago By Editorial | 3 days ago