ODM leader Raila Odinga and his daughter Winnie Odinga arrive at Wanguru stadium for Mashujaa Day celebrations. [Kibata Kihu, Standard]  ODM leader Raila Odinga paid glowing tribute to retired President Mwai Kibaki during the Mashujaa day fete that was held in Kirinyaga County.   Odinga said Kibaki is a great hero who need to be celebrated.  While addressing the nation at Wanguru stadium in Kirinyaga County, Raila said Kibaki steered Kenya and the economy to great heights despite the challenges that prevailed at that time.  Partners in the fight for liberation  Diver celebrates Mashujaa Day retrieving bodies from River Isiukhu  President Uhuru’s Mashujaa Day full speech  Mashujaa Day marked with pomp and colour  Omanyala, Oliech, Kayange and Jepchirchir among sports heroes feted on Mashujaa Day “President Mwai Kibaki is my hero and he must be celebrated. When I said Kibaki Tosha, many thought that Raila Odinga will be finished politically. They said Luos can never vote for Kikuyus but I rallied behind Kibaki and assured our people that we have always been partners in the fight for liberation,” Raila said.  He said despite Kibaki having been involved in a road accident, everyone rallied behind his campaign and was sworn in while on a wheelchair.  “Since then the Kikuyu nation has always referred to me as ‘a friend of the mountain’. This, therefore, is an indication that this tribalism thing is just a skin thing,” Raila said.  Raila said his father identified Kibaki while still in University and brought him to Kenya appointing him as the CEO for KANU.  He said it is worth noting that the retired president played a key role in reviving the economy of the country.  Raila said Kenya has made tremendous strides in dealing with tribalism and should not be allowed to reemerge.  He said it is the colonial passbook that championed tribalism that provoked the Kenyan people to rise against such powers.  Raila said as the country celebrates heroes who have impacted lives in one way or the other, it should be noted that unity and cohesion is key to a peaceful existence.   Pulpit Politics: ODM leader Raila Odinga welcomes move to ban politicians speaking in church  Raila Odinga is set to begin a 2-day in Western Kenya, he is to have consultative meetings  Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens By Micah Sali | 1 hour ago By Jael Mboga and Pkemoi Ng’enoh | 2 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 2 hours ago By Uhuru Kenyatta | 3 hours ago