Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu and Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka engaged in a conversation during the funeral of former cabinet minister Kyale Mwendwa in Matinyani, Kitui County. [Philip Muasya, Standard]  The Kamba Council of Elders has told Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka to heed Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu's advice on 2022 elections re-alignment.  The elders' patron, Wilson Muema, said latest statistics show ODM leader Raila Odinga has the highest chance of clinching the presidency and Kalonzo should rally his community behind the former prime minister to claim a stake in the next government.  "I am politely appealing to Kalonzo Musyoka to bite the bullet and do exactly what Ngilu advised," said Muema.  Ngilu last week predicted Raila's victory next year and urged Kalonzo and his allies to join him early enough to avoid last-minute disappointment.  Alfred Mutua: Kalonzo Musyoka no longer the kingpin after election loss  Objectivity or Opportunity? Alfred Mutua goes after Kalonzo Musyoka  Your time is up, Mutua tells Kalonzo after poll defeat  Nguu Masumba by-election: Kalonzo beaten as Kibwana and Muthama rejoice Muema said indications were clear that many Mt Kenya prominent politicians were rallying behind Raila, leaving no doubt over his victory.    Another politician, Francis Kalinzoya, urged those close to Kalonzo to advise him accordingly on next year's elections for the Kamba community to have a stake in the next government.  He said Kalonzo was highly respected by Kenyans for his "clean character" and it would be crucial for him to align with the winning team.  "We know Kalonzo can make the best president of Kenya but if he finds all cannot be achieved without uniting with others, then he has no option but to do the necessary," said Kalinzoya.  On the recently concluded Nguu/Masumba ward by-election in Makueni County, Kalinzoya defended Kalonzo over his party's loss, saying such a small area could not measure the Wiper leader's popularity in the region.  "Kalonzo still remains the most popular political personality in Ukambani, and that is indisputable," he said.   Kalonzo asema lengo lake kubwa katika uchaguzi mkuu ujao ni kumshinda William Ruto | MBIU WIKENDI 2  Governor Charity Ngilu urges Kalonzo and Raila to mend fences and work together ahead of 2022 polls  Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka calls out political leaders who renege on political agreements By Paul Ogemba | 1 hour ago By Kamau Muthoni | 2 hours ago By Reuters | 10 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 10 hours ago