Students of Dr. Krapf Sec. School in Rabai, Kilifi County leave the compound on October 26 after the management closed the institution for a week. [Moses Baya, Standard]  At least 14 students of Dr. Krapf Memorial Secondary School in Rabai, Kilifi County have been arrested for allegedly damaging property after being denied permission to watch Manchester United-Liverpool match on Sunday, October 24.  The students vandalised one of the dormitories and attempted to torch it on Monday night. The dormitory houses 160 learners.  Beds and other valuables were destroyed in the Monday night fire. [Moses Baya, Standard]  “Fourteen (14) students have been linked to the chaos, and are being held in custody at the Rabai Police Station,” a source, working at the school, told The Standard.  Man United boss Solskjaer survives storm of criticism after Liverpool crushing  Highs and lows of Solskjaer's Manchester United reign  Recent Manchester United managerial departures  Pressure mounts on Solskjaer after Liverpool debacle Preliminary investigations indicate disquiet arose among the students after the administration denied them permission to watch the 90-minute English Premier League (EPL) match, which aired from 6:30pm.  Police say the dormitory wasn’t completely ravaged by the inferno. [Moses Baya, Standard]  “The dormitory that they set alight did not burn completely,” Rabai Sub-County Police Commander Fred Abuga told The Standard.  Following the chaos, the school was closed for a week, with Form One and Form Four students scheduled to report on Tuesday, November 2, while Form Two and Form Three learners expected back a day later.  All learners will be accepted back with complete Term Two fees, the school’s management said.  The students were ordered to be in class for evening studies during the Sunday match, triggering their anger.  The arrested students are being detained at the Rabai Police Station. [Moses Baya, Standard]  Between 6:30pm and 7:30pm, the students usually take their supper. They, thereafter, go for a two-hour prep session between 8pm and 10pm.  Manchester United suffered a 5-0 defeat against highflying Liverpool, leaving them seventh in the league with 14 points from nine games, eight points behind league leaders Chelsea. Liverpool are second in the table with 21 points from the same number of games.   Wanaume Kilifi kushirikishwa katika miradi ya vita dhidi ya dhulma ya kijinsia  KEFRI working with the Rabai in Kilifi to achieve goal of having 10% of tree coverage in the area  Wakazi Kilifi watoa maoni kuhusu mpango wa serikali kutaka watoto wasome shule za karibu na watokako By Patrick Beja | 5 hours ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 19 hours ago By Philip Mwakio | 1 day ago By Patrick Beja and Philip Mwakio | 1 day ago