The United Nations Climate Change Summit best known as the Conference of Parties (COP26) kicks off today in Glasgow, Scotland against the backdrop of world pressure to limit global warning to 1.5 degrees celsius.  A recent shocking climate report released by World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) warned that climate change will melt all glaciers in Mount Kenya, Mount Kilimanjaro and Mount Rwenzori by 2040.  While the Covid-19 pandemic exposed the vulnerability of global health security, climate change remains a major pressing global challenge of our time. While re-admitting America back to Paris Climate Agreement, US President Joe Biden reinforced global commitments to address climate change.  Countries in Africa account for 4 per cent of global carbon emissions yet they are paying the highest ultimate price from climate-related disasters while China, US, UK and Russia which they represent the largest carbon emitters, have not shown more global solidarity to tackle climate change.  Xi's not there? COP26 hopes dim on Chinese leader's likely absence  Climate change talks offer Africa a big chance  Let's all come out and take Covid vaccines  Women academics felt worse than ever about working from home juggling roles UK Prime Minister Borris Johnson challenged global leaders to commit to attend COP26 climate summit as World Health Organisation warned that failure to step up more ambitious targets, climate crisis will worsen human health in the near future.  President Uhuru Kenyatta underscored the commitment to implement Paris Climate Agreement during his recent bilateral meeting with President Biden. Kenya has also submitted its new Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) plans to halt carbon emissions by 32 per cent by 2030.  As the world grapple with unprecedented extreme weather events, COP26 climate summit presents an opportunity for global leadership to address existing climate financial gaps between developed and developing economies. Sustainable climate finance is critical for climate action especially on global clean energy transition and climate adaptation.  Putting indigenous knowledge and nature-based solutions at the centre of scientific approaches to tackle climate change, should be part of universal declaration and COP26 climate summit resolutions.    The outcome of the summit should reflect global commitments where indigenous communities, youth, women and other marginalised groups will have a stake in climate policy decisions.  The writer is a community youth leader   Property Report: Real Estate Market records Mild dip amid COVID-19 pandemic  COVID-19 BRIEFING: Kenya reports 22 new cases, 3 recoveries, 1 death today  Section of Nairobi clergy appeal to Gov't to allow re-opening of churches By Edward Buri | 3 hours ago By Editorial | 3 hours ago By Agumba Ndaloh | 3 hours ago By Sam Kwinga  | 3 hours ago