Lawyer Evans Monari’s mother Teresa Monari and widow Jackline Monari (right) during the burial of the late lawyer in Nyamira County. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  They say a friend in need is a friend indeed. And the family of the late lawyer Evans Monari can relate to the statement.  When their kin passed, they had to raise Sh16 million to clear his hospital bill. They were at a loss since they couldn’t figure out how they were going to clear the bill. It was a difficult time.  However, the late lawyer’s friends came together and raised the money. Something that the family describe as a miracle. A God-sent gift, that the family is forever grateful for.  Lawyer Evans Monari passed on the night of October 4th, 2021 while undergoing treatment at Nairobi Hospital. According to his family, he succumbed to pancreatic cancer complications.   Lawyer Evans Monari amuses mourners at funeral with tribute to himself  Margaret Kenyatta leads nation in paying tribute to lawyer Evans Monari  Moving: Lawyer Evans Monari’s tribute to himself  Lawyer Evans Monari saxed his way into the night of death Speaking during his funeral yesterday, Interior Cabinet Secretary Dr Fred Matiang’i told mourners that the Sh16 million bill that Monari had accumulated at the Nairobi Hospital was cleared by his friends he had kept through his life as a High Court advocate.  “It is very important that while we live, we make friends. And let it not be just friends, but good friends, who can be there for you. Monari had made many good friends who helped in clearing the bill,” Matiang’i said.  Interior Cabinet Secretary Dr Fred Matiang’i. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta in his message of condolences read by Dr Matiang’i mourned Monari as an astute lawyer and a humorist, who was kind-hearted.  “The country has lost a great man whose efforts to showcase our country’s great legal minds was felt across the country,” he said.  The renowned lawyer’s wife, Jacquline Okindo, while giving her tribute said her husband was a good man, loved by many.    “It was a tough battle with pancreatic cancer and those who know cancer, know how painful it is. It was not easy but I thank God for all those friends who meant well for our family,” Okindo said.  Monari’s mother, Teresa Bosibori eulogised her son as a generous person and urged his friends to extend the same generosity to his children and widow.  “You were good friends to my son. One thing I ask of you is not to forget his children and wife. Be there for them. Comfort them and encourage them since this is difficult for them. Further, mentor the children that my son has left behind,” Bosibori said.  Lawyer Evans Monari passed on the night of October 4, 2021, while undergoing treatment at Nairobi Hospital. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  Solicitor General Ken Ogeto noted that he had lost a great confidant.  “We shared a lot with the late Evans. His mother and my mother are namesakes and they all were councilors at one time before devolution. I was also his best man during his wedding,” Ogeto said.  Professor Githu Muigai and lawyer Donald Kipkorir describe Monari as a man, who had a great sense of humour.  Kipkorir revealed to mourners that they travelled a lot across the globe with the late lawyer.  Some of the political leaders who attended the burial held at Monaris’ rural home at Gesima in Nyamira County included, Amani National Congress Party leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetangula, Cyrus Jirongo, Cabinet Secretaries Eugene Wamalwa (Defense) and Betty Maina (Industrialisation).   Others included Gusii MPs Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba), Jerusha Momanyi (Nyamira Woman MP), Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache South MP), Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango), Ben Momanyi (Borabu MP) and Nyeri Deputy Governor Caroline Karugu. All the speakers praised Monari for his generosity which impacted many people.  By Edward Kosut | 4 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura | 4 hours ago By Alexander Chagema | 4 hours ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 8 hours ago