A 21-year-old woman has agreed to plead guilty to killing her fiancé on condition that she is granted a plea bargain agreement.  Branswet Wambui admitted to have stabbed John Mwago with a kitchen knife on the night of October 21, 2020 at Bismarck area, within Nakuru County.  She told Justice Hillary Chemitei that all the facts of the case read by Prosecutor Vena Odero were true and she was guilty of the offense.  “The accused person (Wambui) has pleaded guilty to the lesser charge of manslaughter - killing without malice nor intention. A guilty plea is entered,” said Chemitei    Mass voter registration to kick off in Nakuru  Raila, Ruto factor to shape Nakuru governorship race  Police officers, boda boda riders in Nakuru challenge each other to a football match  Tributes as MC Washey Hype is laid to rest According to the State, Wambui started screaming calling for help from neighbours to rescue her fiancé, on the day of the incident at around 11.30pm.  She told the court that a neighbour, identified as Hellen Nyambura heard the scream and went to their house only to find Mwago lying on the floor bleeding from the mouth.  “The accused told her neighbour that she and her fiancé Mwago had quarreled when she threatened to leave him,” said Odero.  Post mortem report filed in court as evidence indicated that Mwago died as a result of excessive bleeding on the neck.  The prosecution wants Wambui to be sentenced to five years in jail while on her part, Wambui wants full pardon from the court.  “I was not intimidated; neither was I threatened to admit to the charge of manslaughter but it was unintentional.”  Wambui was arrested on the same night. She was arraigned in court, denied murder charge and was granted a bond of Sh800,000.  Wambui will mitigate on November 15, 2021.   Serikali ya kaunti ya Nakuru yatoa pendekezo la kuzuia uvuvi katika ziwa Naivasha  KENHA urges Kenyans plying the Nairobi-Nakuru highway to use alternative routes  Tussle over the ownership of land in Ngongogeri, Nakuru threatening peace amongst disputing parties By Julius Chepkwony | 1 hour ago By Kennedy Gachuhi and James Munyeki | 9 hours ago By Michael Saitoti | 9 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 1 day ago