Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. [Benjamin Sakwa, Standard]  Governor Wycliffe Oparanya on Wednesday made changes to his cabinet in a bid to strengthen service delivery.  The governor appointed Finance Chief Officer James Ochami as the new county secretary, replacing Ms Jacinta Aluoch. Ms Aluoch has since been deployed to serve in the Directorate of the Lake Region Economic Bloc Resource Mobilisation and Partnership as a director.  Rachel Okumu was moved from the Department of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Cooperatives to that of Public Service and County Administration as the head.   Rodah Masaviru is the new executive for Water, Environment, Natural Resources and Climate Change, replacing Mr Fanuel Kulati Wangia who has been moved to Roads, Energy and Public Works docket.   Western leaders issue demands, want Oparanya to deputise Raila  All that glitters is not gold: Miners suffer effects of using mercury  The dead and the living compete for space in Kakamega   Man’s handiwork that has driven tempo of Sunday church services Mr Geoffrey Omulayi has been moved from Roads to head Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Cooperatives.  Oparanya has also appointed Isaac Omungo as the new Chief of Staff. The position has been vacant since the death of Robert Sumbi who succumbed to Covid-19.  The governor also appointed new chief officers. Mr Nabii Nabwera is acting chief officer for Livestock and Veterinary Services while Doreen Muhambe Amwoga is the acting chief officer for Education, Science and Technology.  Mr Fanuel Musasia takes over as acting chief officer for ICT and e-Government, ERP and Connectivity while Dr Felister Moraa Mose is the new chief officer for Health Services.   Mr Zephaniah Otieno is the acting chief officer for Fisheries Development while Mr Samson Otieno is the acting chief officer for Finance. Colonel Job Lubanga Akhulia is the acting chief officer for County Administration while Mr Dan Borter is the acting chief officer for Economic Planning and Investments.    Siasa za ODM: Gavana wa Kaunti ya Kakamega, Wycliffe Oparanya anataka aungwe mkono  Residents in Kakamega share their views on what they expect from the President's address  BBI proponents in Kakamega exude confidence ahead of BBI bill debate at the county assembly By Willy Lusige and Robert Amalemba | 19 hours ago By Caroline Chebet | 20 hours ago By Benard Lusigi | 1 day ago By Jackline Inyanji | 1 day ago