A section of Kanu officials from Uasin Gishu wants the electoral commission to be allocated adequate funds ahead of the 2022 general elections.  The officials urged the National Assembly to ensure sufficient funding to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to guarantee a credible, free and fair election.  Speaking in Eldoret town, local Kanu Chairman Moses Maina said his party has started sensitizing the locals on the importance of registering as voters.  He noted that the election needs proper planning and that the legislators must work hard on ensuring the Treasury releases all the funds to IEBC on time.  He also called on Kenyans who have not registered as voters to do so before November 4.  Prisoners want to be fully involved in voting  Ruto reaches out to Kalonzo, seeks deal  Prisoners want to be fully involved in voting for President  MP Gachagua accuses IEBC of being partisan "Our young people need to take the election process seriously. They are the majority. Those who have not collected their ID cards at the chief's office, kindly do so and register as a voter,” Maina said.  “We expect the 2022 elections will give us better leaders. Our young people must take these matters seriously," he added.  Kanu supporter Cyrus Kataron asked locals in the county to avoid the last-minute rush.  He noted that IEBC targets at least 160,000 new voters in Uasin Gishu during the 30-day exercise, but the registration has been below par.  “We are urging the residents to come out in big numbers because our target is to have at least 700,000 voters by 2022. I believe this number will enable this county to have a voice in national politics,” said Kataron.  He further challenged Kenyans who are yet to register as voters to do so.  “Our party leader Gideon Moi is among the presidential aspirants and that’s why we are urging our supporters to register," he noted.  Benjamin Leting, a Kanu supporter, called on chiefs and sub-chiefs to work with village elders, to issue out the ID cards.    ODM’s attempt to oust Chebukati from IEBC elicits mixed reactions | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  Exploring the preparedness and the key timeliness of the IEBC to conduct the 2022 General Elections  Strengthening KANU: Nairobi branch leaders met to discuss party restructuring ahead of 2022 By Nikko Tanui | 1 hour ago By Julius Chepkwony | 12 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi and James Munyeki | 12 hours ago By Nikko Tanui | 12 hours ago