ODM leader Raila Odinga introduces his daughter Winnie Odinga to Malawi President Lazarus Chakwera after the celebrations at Wanguru Stadium in Kirinyaga County. [Kibata Kihu, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga used Mashujaa Day celebrations to endear themselves to the electorate.  Raila, who first addressed the attendants at Wang’uru stadium, used the opportunity to fight the perception of Luo -Kikuyu rivalry, reminding locals of how the two communities have partnered in the past. The ODM leader told locals that the tribal tiff between the two communities is a creation of politicians.  “We have been partners in the past when I said ‘Kibaki tosha’, I was hailed as a brave leader. Some people thought I had just committed a political suicide, but Luos voted for Kibaki with over 98 per cent of votes,” Raila said.  Mashujaa Day: Only 3,000 guests allowed into the stadium for fete  Uhuru’s Sh25 billion stimulus package   Buses, restaurants and bars to profit from end of curfew  Governor Waiguru highlights universal healthcare programme and farmers projects Raila has been using the example of his father Mzee Jaramogi Oginga Odinga and the founding father Mzee Jomo Kenyatta’s political partnership that saw Mzee Kenyatta released from prison to penetrate the region which has been previously perceived as hostile.  The opposition chief is also banking on the handshake between him and President Uhuru Kenyatta to prove a point that he is a friend of the Mountain.    “Raila is a friend to the Mountain and has been able to climb it,” he told residents at Wang’uru stadium.  Government’s legacy  Ruto on his part seeks to ride on the Government’s legacy to seek favour from the President’s diehards who may not vote for him due to their open political beef with him. During his just concluded Coast tour, DP Ruto who insinuated that both Raila and Uhuru regarded him a good person while he separately supported their bids, cleverly took a softer route during yesterday’s celebrations.  While pampering and singing praises of the President, Ruto took note of his boss’s commitment to development for the past nine years.  “Mr President, I give you my assurance that even after you, we shall build in the legacy that you have set and will ensure that nothing you will leave behind is left incomplete,” DP said.  Although while campaigning in some areas, Ruto has been sensationally claiming that the handshake replaced the Big Four agenda, he assured that he too if elected would ensure continuity of unity missions started off by the President.  “I will ensure that your legacy and agenda that you have set for the unity of the nation under the Big four agenda plan together with the Bottom-Up economic model will go to greater heights,” Ruto said.  He praised the President for what he described as setting standards for Presidents who will come after him. Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi who spoke before the two leaders said there was need to have a leader who will ensure continuity of the development projects imitated by Jubilee government.  “There is tremendous development in this country that needs continuity. I seek for tolerance during this period and respect for everybody in the country to build cohesion,” Mudavadi said.   "Mimi niko ready, any moment," Ruto says he is ready to reconcile with Uhuru without any conditions  Pulpit Politics: ODM leader Raila Odinga welcomes move to ban politicians speaking in church  Raila Odinga is set to begin a 2-day in Western Kenya, he is to have consultative meetings By Winfrey Owino | 18 hours ago By Phares Mutembei | 1 day ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 1 day ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 1 day ago