ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi in Nairobi on October 7, 2021. [Edward Kiplimo,Standard]  Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi has asked Kenyans to vote for a leader they can trust.  Speaking when he and other One Kenya Alliance principals met the Mount Kenya Foundation business leaders last week, Mudavadi said as President Uhuru Kenyatta's tenure ends, there is a need to ask questions.  "Who can you trust with the leadership of this country?"  Further, the ANC leader said good governance should entail proper dialogue and respecting the rule of law.  Lack of sleep drove me crazy  Wa Iria plans to climb Mt Kenya in readiness for presidential race  Mbappe winner as France beat Spain in Nations League final  Battle for Mt Kenya intensifies as Raila visits "How many will ensure if a candidate wins an election the rule of the people will be respected?" he said.  Mudavadi asked Kenyans to vote for a leader who would not misuse the office to settle scores, which he said is a recipe for poll violence.  The presidential hopeful criticised the bottom-up model propagated by the tanga tanga faction led by Deputy President William Ruto.  He said the bottom-up model associated with hustlers paints other business people in a bad light.  "Everyone needs to be given space...embrace both the industrialists and the small business owners and dismiss the notion of the billionaires’ club as they have worked for what they have."  Mudavadi said part of OKA's principle is to bring traders together, not set them against each other.  Mudavadi went on to add that Kenya's main problem is the huge public debt which can be solved through good leadership.  Resource allocation should reflect the population, the ANC chief added.  Meanwhile, the battle to control and woo Mount Kenya voters continues as the 2022 General Election nears.  ODM leader Raila Odinga dismissed claims by Ruto that Mt Kenya is his stronghold.  On Saturday, Ruto, while in Laikipia, said the ODM leader was welcome to Mt Kenya, but the residents had already decided on their preferred presidential candidate.  Ruto has maintained that he has the support of Mt Kenya region ahead of next year’s General Election.  The DP described his political rivals, who are now touring the area, as “newcomers”.  “He [Raila] is looking for Google Maps to guide him on the way to the region. While he was away, we built roads, railways, and technical institutions. The region is a UDA stronghold,” Ruto said.  The clamour for unity spearheaded by Kiunjuri, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, and Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua has been gaining momentum, a probable reason for Ruto and his troops to stage an all-round political war at their doorsteps.  But Ruto said his political formation has the face of the nation with over 150 MPs, adding that it is the only political party that can unite Kenyans. “Let us unite Kenyans through UDA, we even have the support of Laikipia elected leaders like John Kinyua (senator) and Patrick Mariru (Laikipia West), among others,” Ruto said.   Musalia Mudavadi is expected in Meru county in his heightened political activities to woo the region  Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao  Muungano wa NASA umevunjika rasmi baada ya ANC, Wiper na Ford Kenya kutangaza kujiondoa kwao By Special Correspondent | 4 hours ago By Boniface Gikandi | 6 hours ago By  Daniel Chege and Julius Chepkwony | 12 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 19 hours ago