ODM leader Raila Odinga and Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru during this year's Mashujaa Day celebration at Wanguru Stadium, Kirinyaga County on October 20, 2021 [Elvis Ogina, Standard[  Kirinyaga Governor Ann Waiguru yesterday praised President Uhuru Kenyatta's government for facilitating development projects in the county.  Waiguru also took the opportunity to highlight her government's achievement. "We have implemented various development projects across economic sectors to transform the lives of residents," she said.  Wang'uru Stadium where the Mashujaa Day celebrations were held was one of Uhuru's promises to the region. It was renovated and upgraded to international standards ahead of the event.  "I want to thank you for the developments my county received under your government. It is true that the pledge you made last year has been fulfilled. The same place we got stuck in mud and walked in gumboots is where we are now holding our Mashujaa Day celebrations," said Waiguru.  Mashujaa Day: Only 3,000 guests allowed into the stadium for fete  Uhuru’s Sh25 billion stimulus package   Buses, restaurants and bars to profit from end of curfew  Cheers as Uhuru declares end of 19-month curfew   She said the devolved government was upgrading the Kerugoya Level 4 Hospital to level 5, and the improvement of Kianyaga and Kimbimbi hospitals to level 4 had already commenced. "My county government has focused towards achieving the vision on universal healthcare," she said.  In agriculture, the governor said small groups have been empowered to increase money in farmers' pockets. "Through the Wezesha Kirinyaga programme, the groups that are involved in various activities in the value chain have benefited farmers," she said.   REGGAE IS BACK: The final BBI report unveiled in Kisii and received by President Uhuru and Raila  Government launches Huduma Namba Card as Kenya marks Mashujaa day today  Celebrating Mashujaa: The National Celebrations held in Kisii County By Amos Kareithi | 8 hours ago By Wainaina Ndung'u and Ndungu Gachane | 8 hours ago By Macharia Kamau | 8 hours ago By Wainaina Wambu | 8 hours ago