Ford-Kenya acting secretary-general Millicent Abudho, MP Dr Chris Wamalwa and Party Leader Moses Wetangula during Ford-Kenya National Executive Council and Parliamentary Group meeting in Nairobi on Monday, Aug 17, 2020. [Jonah Onyango, Standard]  A Ford Kenya party splinter group is planning to hold a parallel National Delegates Conference (NDC).  The faction allied to Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi said it will conduct the conference on November 6 at Moi Sports Centre Kasarani in Nairobi.  However, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula plans to preside over the party's National Executive Council (NEC) meeting at Bomas of Kenya on November 4.  Former party Secretary-General Eseli Simiyu, Wamunyinyi and Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati insisted that the NDC will go on as planned. They challenged Wetang'ula to attend and defend his position.  Blow to Moses Wetang'ula as ally declares support for Ruto  ANC lays strategy for dominating polls in Western  Wafula Wamunyinyi’s aide Peter Ochieng hacked to death  Ford Kenya wrangles: Wamunyinyi-led faction dares Wetang'ula    The leaders have been labelled rebels out to rock the party from within. Wetang'ula has accused them of being behind a failed coup that attempted to dislodge him from the helm of the party.  The faction of Dr Simiyu, Wamunyinyi and Wangamati was the first to announce the NDC. A week later, Ford Kenya acting Secretary General Millicent Abudho published a Gazette notice inviting members interested in vying for various leadership posts during the NEC to apply.  Wetang’ula has set tough rules for those seeking party positions. They will be required to be life members and to pay a mandatory nomination fee ranging between Sh50,000 and Sh1 million depending on the position.  “Pursuant to the party constitution, applicants are hereby invited for expression of interest in occupying positions in the National Executive Council (NEC) where elections will be held during the National Delegates Conference,” states the Gazette notice dated October 16.  Abudho said those seeking the party leader position will pay Sh1 million, deputy party leader Sh500,000, national chairman Sh250,000 and national vice chairman Sh50,000.   Muungano wa NASA umevunjika rasmi baada ya ANC, Wiper na Ford Kenya kutangaza kujiondoa kwao  Ford Kenya stamps it's authority as Majimbo Kalasinga wins the Kabuchai parliamentary by-elections  Mgogoro FORD Kenya: Eseli asema maafisa wanapokea vitisho, ni baada ya Kutimuliwa kwa Wetangula By Phares Mutembei | 15 hours ago By Erastus M Mulwa | 15 hours ago By George Njunge | 15 hours ago By Jackline Inyanji | 16 hours ago