the late Naivasha businessman Fai Amario. His children are battling for his Sh478 million estate. [File, Standard]  The son of the late Naivasha businessman Fai Amario has been ordered to pay her sister Sh134,000 monthly upkeep.  Justice Teresia Matheka ruled that Miki Ng’ang’a should take care of 32-year-old Marsha Dee, who is living with a disability.  Mr Ng’ang’a controls Fai Amarillo Ltd, a family company that holds 90 per cent shares in Amario’s Sh478 million estate.  The court stated that he has to share with his sister what is earned from their brewery.  Fai Amario children’s case verdict delayed Ms Matheka also ordered Ng’ang’a to pay Sh481,000 in arrears dating back to March. “The respondent is to continue providing for her sister until this succession case is concluded,” she ruled.  The judge noted that the brother has been catering for her sister for the last 10 years, adding the monthly upkeep can be reviewed once the succession case is concluded.  The money will be remitted by the 28th of every month.  Happy times; Monique and Fai Amario at their home in Naivasha. [Antony Gitonga, Standard]  The court intervened after the siblings failed to agree the amount Ng’ang’a should pay to Ms Dee, and the mode of payment.  Dee filed an application on June 7, 2021 demanding Sh134,000 monthly payments. She sought orders to have her brother pay for her education, rent, food and medicine.  Dee claimed that she has been living with a disability for over a year and is unable to care for herself.  She claimed that their father’s company was making more than Sh28 million every four months and Ng’ang’a, who controls it, is making over Sh2 million monthly.  Ng’ang’a challenged the application and termed it a misrepresentation of facts. “I have been remitting funds to my sister and I am only willing to cater for her on humanitarian grounds since the succession case is still pending in court,” he argued.  He insisted that the maintenance case couldn’t be dealt with until his late father’s inheritance case is determined and assets are distributed among the beneficiaries.  “Proceedings of my sister’s maintenance suit depends on the valuation of my father’s property which has not been done," he claimed.  Amario, also known as Peter Gilbert Njoroge, was among the first major suppliers of cheap vodka, wine and spirits. The controversial businessman died intestate on May 23, 2010  The case will be mentioned on November 11.  By Jael Mboga | 45 minutes ago By Jael Mboga | 1 hour ago By Amos Kareithi | 1 hour ago By Paul Ogemba | 1 hour ago