The Ministry of Sports, Culture and Heritage has announced that it is ready to welcome back a limited number of stadium spectators.  This follows President Uhuru Kenyatta’s recent decision to lift the nationwide curfew imposed to contain COVID-19 in the country.   “Following the H.E the President's announcement on revising the Covid-19 protocols and subsequent discussions between the Cabinet Secretary for Sports Amina Mohamed and the CS for Health Hon. Mutahi Kagwe, spectators will now be allowed into stadiums. Event organizers are expected to ensure they utilize upto 2/3rds capacity of the stadia,’ read the statement from the Sports Ministry. For other events, a limited number of fans will be allowed with event organizers expected to provide prior written approvals.  “For local events, the event organizers shall be expected to provide prior written approvals of the number of spectators allowable for the event by the federation registered in  Kenya,” added the statement.  Cricket Kenya draft constitution adopted with amendments  Ethiopia’s Gebrselassie honours fallen Tirop as he launches Great Run  Faith misses out as atheletes are honoured during Mashujaa Day  Gor Mahia reign supreme in 90th Mashemeji Derby  No love lost as AFC Leopards, Gor Mahia collide in an empty Kasarani Stadium today “For international events, a similar approval shall be required from the local and international federation. Further, event organizers must demonstrate to the Ministry and Sports Kenya, their capacity to secure and manage their spectators and property during such events.   “All the other Resumption of Sports Protocols remain in force.”  The announcement comes after Gor Mahia issued a statement on Friday evening that the government has approved supporters to cheer the team during their CAF Confederations Cup clash against Al Ahly Merowe of Sudan on Sunday in Nairobi.  "Up to 10,000 fans will be allowed to watch our second leg CAF match against Al Ahly set for Sunday at Nyayo Stadium; the Ministry of Health and Federation have already approved," K’ogallo posted on its official social media pages.  ???? | ANNOUCEMENT  Up to 10,000 fans to be allowed to watch our second leg CAF match against Al Ahly set for Sunday at Nyayo Stadium; Ministry of Health and Federation already approved.  K'Ogaloooo.... Goooooor... Gor Mahia ????#Sirkal | #Betsafe pic.twitter.com/7862k4mc9D — GOR MAHIA FC (@OfficialGMFC) October 22, 2021 The government banned fans from attending sporting venues in March 2020 when COVID-19 landed in the country.  In November 2020, the suspension of sporting activity was lifted, but the fans were left out unless in special cases where the Health and Sports ministries cleared them to attend in limited numbers.  Since then, the clamour to allow fans back to stadiums has grown louder in the face of mass political rallies as the country gears for the 2022 General Elections in August 2022.      Tracking down President Uhuru's elusive Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in Kenya  Stephen Mukangai azungumzia kocha mpya wa Gor Mahia na Ligi Kuu ya Taifa | Zilizala Viwanjani  Timu ya Gor Mahia yamsajili Mark Harrison kuwa kocha wao hapa nchini Kenya  FKF Premier League Results: Gor Mahia 1-0 Sofapaka, Tusker FC 1-0 Kariobangi Sharks  HOUSE OF CARDS: Is the State secretly engineering plot to have a compromise candidate succeed Uhuru? By Washington Onyango | 45 minutes ago By Ben Ahenda | 1 hour ago By Caroline Obuya in South Africa | 1 hour ago By Standard Sports | 2 hours ago