Governor Alfred Mutua addresses wananchi at Tala town on Thursday, October 21, 2021. [Erastus Mulwa, Standard]  Maendeleo Chap Chap party leader Alfred Mutua has urged political leaders not to overindulge in campaigns at the expense of service delivery to the public.  Dr Mutua, who is also a 2022 presidential aspirant, said while it was the right of politicians to hunt for votes ahead of next year’s General Election, Kenyan citizens have equal rights to enjoy services offered by all government agencies.  “I wish to remind all leaders that we have been elected to serve until the next election day,” Mutua said.  The Machakos governor criticised politicians issuing pre-election promises, noting they first have to account for what they have done.  Pull down video and apologise, Governor Mutua tells Boniface Mwangi  Alfred Mutua: Kalonzo Musyoka no longer the kingpin after election loss  Objectivity or Opportunity? Alfred Mutua goes after Kalonzo Musyoka  Your time is up, Mutua tells Kalonzo after poll defeat Mutua addressed the public in Tala town yesterday after touring ongoing infrastructure development projects in Kangundo and Matungulu sub counties.  The county government is implementing World Bank-funded projects covering Nguluni, Tala and Kangundo towns which constitute Kangundo/Tala municipality. Similar programmes are ongoing in Machakos and Mavoko municipalities. They include road works, solar lighting, paving walkways and laying drainage lines.  Mutua defended his development record and urged Ukambani residents to rally behind his bid for presidency.  “The people of Machakos are witness to my development record since I took office in 2013 and I will proudly exit to seek the country’s top seat,” he said.  He reiterated his challenge last week to Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka to retire from active politics, saying the former vice-president had served his time.  “We respect Kalonzo for what he has done for the Kamba community and we are telling him it is now time to exit and pave way for younger blood to take over leadership,” he said.  Mutua also toured Kangundo Level 4 Hospital where he inspected the newly constructed Intensive Care Unit Complex which he said will be equipped soon.   Governor Alfred Mutua's message to the Kenyan youth  Governor Alfed Mutua's full speech at the BBI Report launch  Alfred Mutua adai kuigwa na kiongozi wa chama cha ANC Musalia Mudavadi By Phares Mutembei | 2 hours ago By George Njunge | 2 hours ago By Jackline Inyanji | 2 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 6 hours ago