Deputy President William Ruto yesterday began his five-day tour of the Coast as he dismissed ODM leader Raila Odinga's economic model.  He said Raila was proposing a trickle-down economic model of giving handouts to the youth and women, which has failed to work.  At the same time, Ruto hailed his bottom-up economic model as an empowerment plan.  The DP held rallies in Wundanyi, Mwatate and Voi towns in Taita Taveta County. He was last evening scheduled to hold a funds drive for women groups in Kwale County.  Ruto is scheduled to hold 17 events to sell his bottom-up economic model.  Raila, Ruto must end political intolerance ahead of elections  Ruto: I don't need 'sycophants'  MPs in new bid to clip Ruto’s wings, push creation of 73 constituencies  Do not follow me blindly, Ruto tells allies   According to an itinerary released by his office, the DP will tour Taita Taveta, Kwale, Kilifi, Mombasa and Lamu in his quest to consolidate his support.  On Monday, he will hold a meeting with United Democratic Alliance (UDA) aspirants from the Coast at Mombasa's Wild Waters Park.  Just a month ago, Raila held an ODM Coast delegates conference at the same venue where Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho dropped his bid for the party presidency in favour of his party leader.  And two weeks later, Kanu National Chairman Gideon Moi also held the party's Coast delegates meeting at the same avenue. The Baringo senator also crisscrossed Kwale County.  Yesterday Ruto slammed the ODM leader for his proposal of a trickle-down economic model which he claimed has failed to work in the country.   Raila has pledged Sh6,000 monthly pay for the poor households. He also promised to increase the cash transfer from the annual Sh37 billion to Sh137 billion to benefit two million poor Kenyans.  Yesterday, the DP termed Raila’s economic model as "handouts to Kenyans".  “I am happy that my competitors have joined the conversation to support the poor. They are now focusing on how to improve the lives of these people," Ruto said.  “My competitors have joined the hustler conversation. But they are now supporting the trickle down narrative of handouts. Kenyans will ultimately decide which economic model is good for them. Kenyans do not need handouts but jobs,” he told the crowds in Voi amid chants of 'Baba! Baba!   Ruto said in the next financial year, the government will set aside Sh120 million support traders, boda boda operators and other vulnerable groups.  Boost businesses  The DP gave Sh4 million to over 4,000 traders in Wundanyi, Mwatate and Voi towns to boost their businesses which had badly been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.  “Today I have given you money from my pocket but next year the government will set aside money in each constituency to support your activities,” he said.  Ruto was accompanied by Women Rep Lydia Haika, former Lunga Lunga legislator Haitib Mwashetani, former Governor John Mruttu, MCAs and other parliamentary and ward aspirants.  Further, he reiterated that he will not meet the Mount Kenya Foundation to seek support from the Central region but will reach out to Kenyans.  “I will not meet Mount Kenya Foundation to interview me as a presidential candidate because they have not been sent by Kenyans to do the job," he said.  Meanwhile, the DP promised that if elected president, his administration will enter an agreement with county residents on sharing of revenue collected from Tsavo National Park.      "Mimi niko ready, any moment," Ruto says he is ready to reconcile with Uhuru without any conditions  CS Matiang'i hits again as Deputy President William Ruto fights back | PRESS REVIEW  Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana By Lucas Ngasike and Peter Ochieng | 2 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 2 hours ago By Gilbert Kimutai | 2 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 10 hours ago