Interior CS Fred Matiang'i during a funds drive function at Isinya in Kajiado County on October 3, 2021. [Courtesy]  The government will launch an aggressive programme beginning Monday to address the challenges in the energy sector that have led to the high cost of fuel and rising electricity bills.  Speaking at Isinya, Kajiado County on Sunday during a fund drive for the proposed Seventh Day Church headquarter, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i said the planned changes will see fuel prices and cost of the electricity come down.  “With these planned changes, we are certain that prices of fuel will not only come down but even bills and cost of electricity that we’re paying will also come down,” he said.  Matiang’i said the planned programmes will include implementing President Uhuru Kenyatta's directives issued last week to cushion Kenyans and other industrialists from the high power bills.  Help us end illicit brews or quit, CS Fred Matiang'i tells chiefs  CS Fred Matiang’i announces security changes to end Laikipia killings  Arrest politicians behind banditry attacks in Laikipia, Waruguru tells CS Matiang’i  DP’s office denies links to property listed by CS Matiang’i  He said the government will undertake radical changes at the Kenya Power and Lighting Company (KPLC) to reduce the cost of power and tame the losses at the parastatals as indicated in a task force report.  Matiang’i said Kenya had lost both local and foreign investors to neighbouring countries due to the high cost of power.  He said, once implemented, the proposed reforms by a task force appointed by President Kenyatta will be a game-changer and will see profit margins of locals firms go up.  The John Ngumi-led task force recommended an immediate overhaul of the operations at the KPLC.  It also recommended a review of the Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) between KPLC and private firms.  The function was also attended by CSs Joe Mucheru (ICT), Eugene Wamalwa (Defence) and Kajiado Governor Joseph ole Lenku.  Matiang’i’s remarks come a day after ODM leader Raila Odinga told his supporters in Bungoma town that the government will reduce the prices of fuel next week.  He said plans were underway to cushion Kenyans against hard economic times by revising the cost of fuel.   Impeaching Matiang'i: Guns trained at CS Fred Matiang'i with leaders divided over impeachment plans  CS Matiang'i rues 'porous borders' as biggest impediment to fight against illegal firearms  THE MATIANG'I FACTOR: CS is under fire from DP Ruto allied leaders Part One | THE BIG STORY By Mercy Kahenda | 40 minutes ago By Julius Chepkwony | 7 hours ago By Denis Kabaara | 7 hours ago By Faith Kutere | 7 hours ago