A view of a road in Kisii town roads some minutes to 7 pm [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta led the nation in celebrating this year’s Mashujaa Day, extolling his achievements and spelling out bold plans towards a return to post-pandemic normalcy.  At the event graced by Malawian leader Lazarus Chakwera yesterday, Uhuru praised Kenya’s forefathers and men and women who continue to make extraordinary contributions to nation-building.  Apart from matters economy and the progress towards full implementation of the new education curriculum, Uhuru touched on the maritime row with Somalia, saying Kenya would jealously guard its borders and cede not even an inch.  It was, however, the lifting of the nationwide dusk to dawn Covid-19 curfew that many Kenyans considered the climax of his speech. The curfew had been in effect from March 27 last year, with its effects spread out across sectors.  Mashujaa Day: Only 3,000 guests allowed into the stadium for fete  Uhuru’s Sh25 billion stimulus package   Buses, restaurants and bars to profit from end of curfew  Governor Waiguru highlights universal healthcare programme and farmers projects The president was, however, upbeat that despite the Covid-19 challenge, the economy was on a sure path to recovery. He said the economy will grow by six per cent. This offers hope in the wake of gloom that had gripped businesses and households.  Admittedly, the curfew had choked the economy, and yesterday’s decision to lift it was heartening, mainly to small-scale traders, transporters and the entertainment and hospitality sectors.  But with the curfew lifted, we believe the hard part starts. This is the time to work hard to recover what we may have lost but without lowering our guard. The war on Covid-19 is far from won.  The surge of infections may have declined in the last two weeks – as characterised by the positivity rate of below five per cent – but compliance with health guidelines is still the silver bullet in this war. Five million Kenyans have received Covid vaccines so far. Vaccinating more and sticking to the protocols will keep Covid-19 at bay.      Will the Government lift the ongoing countrywide curfew when it expires at midnight tonight?  Is it time to end curfew? | Press Review  REGGAE IS BACK: The final BBI report unveiled in Kisii and received by President Uhuru and Raila By Editorial | 8 hours ago By Editorial | 1 day ago By Editorial | 1 day ago By Editorial | 2 days ago