Mt Kenya Foundation will today present its interests to One Kenya Alliance (OKA) principals.  The group is set to meet the OKA leaders over lunch, from noon, at the Safari Park Hotel.   The OKA leaders include Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress), Gideon Moi (Kanu) and Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya).  The OKA principals have collectively pledged loyalty to President Uhuru Kenyatta, but each bear ambitions to succeed him.  Standard journalist feted among Kenya’s top science journalists of the year  Couple makes job hunting easier  Kindiki firm told to pay Sh2.2m for dismissing pregnant lawyer  Buoyed by Kanu delegates endorsement Gideon takes vote hunt to Rift Valley  “Your input in the consultations towards Mt Kenya region’s position and stake in the next government will be greatly appreciated,” reads the invite by MKF vice chairman Titus Ibui.    According to insiders, the group will eventually meet President Kenyatta to present its preferred presidential candidate.  “MKF planned the meeting. They will give us the opportunity to share our visions and aspirations,” said Mudavadi.? Kanu Secretary General Nick Salat confirmed that party boss and Baringo Senator Gideon received an invitation from MKF.  Salat described the meeting as a consultation by like-minded leaders on Uhuru succession.  “It will be upon my party leader to share his agenda and vision during the meeting,” he said.  The meeting comes a week after Baringo Senator Gideon was endorsed at the National Delegates Conference at Bomas of Kenya, Nairobi last week to run for presidency.  So far, from the alliance, Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Gideon are the ones who have declared interest in the presidency.  Wiper vice chair Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (Makueni) hopes the meeting will be productive.  “I hope that we can exchange ideas on how to move the county forward,”he said.  Ford Kenya acting Secretary General Chris Wamalwa said OKA feels privileged to share its aspirations for the region and Kenya at large.  He claimed that the forum endorsed former ODM leader Raila Odinga when they hosted him for a similar engagement last week.  “We have been invited and they said they never endorsed Raila. The overall objective is to see a peaceful and a united country after the elections,” said Dr Wamalwa.  Initially, the meeting was scheduled for last Friday but was postponed. It follows a similar one between the businessowners and Raila.  In the previous meeting, the ODM leader was engaged on enhancing businesses, the inclusion of persons living with disability among other issues. Similar concerns may find their way on today’s agenda.  The luncheon is also expected to feature talks of consolidating the opposition that it may present a united force to face Ruto next year.    Raila Odinga has given the clearest indication yet that he is ready to work with One Kenya Alliance  Senator Gideon Moi calls upon the Mt. Kenya region leaders to join the One Kenya Alliance  Kalonzo asema lengo lake kubwa katika uchaguzi mkuu ujao ni kumshinda William Ruto | MBIU WIKENDI 2 By Steve Mkawale | 55 minutes ago By Kamau Ngotho | 3 hours ago By Standard Reporter | 9 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 14 hours ago