Three people were killed in separate incidents.  A man from Chepkoyo village, Ainamoi Constituency, killed his 57-year-old father and buried the body in a shallow grave in their farm.  Kericho East Officer Commanding Police Division Caleb Wesa said the man was first reported missing on Saturday only to be found dead.  Zablon Kemei, who had participated in the search of the deceased, said a dog sniffed out the decomposing body.  “We first uncovered part of the deceased feet and toes. We immediately alerted the police,” he said.  Kericho murders leave residents in shock and grief  How athlete Agnes Tirop died, autopsy reveals  The untold story of Masten Wanjala  Four suspects linked to lynching of grannies detained for 10 days Mr Wesa said they had obtained orders for the exhumation of the body.  “The exhumation is currently underway. Postmortem would provide us with clues about how the deceased died,” said Wesa.  The 28-year-old suspect was pursued by the mob and lynched four kilometres from their home.  In the second incident, Winny Chepkemoi, was killed at dawn in her restaurant in Chebown, Belgut Constituency, as she prepared breakfast for her customers.  Kericho County Police Commander Silas Gichunge said they were looking for her estranged lover, who is the main suspect.  The woman’s throat was slit, and had a deep cut in her belly.  According to Rosa Rono, the deceased’s landlord, Chepkemoi had confiscated a boda boda she had allegedly bought him.  “Before he came over and killed her, the two had had another quarrel over some property the man claimed the deceased had taken from him,” she said.  In another incident, Kericho Officer Commanding Police Station Osama Mohamed led the police in arresting a most-wanted gangster in the town. The police recovered 42 rounds of ammunition, a gas cylinder, and crude weapons from the suspect in his hideout near Kericho Green Stadium.      Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death  Nyeri Murder Probe: Nyeri tycoon accused of killing his own son over domestic quarrel between them By Edward Kosut | 8 hours ago By James Munyeki | 8 hours ago By Antony Gitonga | 8 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 14 hours ago