Deputy President William Ruto addressing Busia town residents, October 2021. [DPPS]  Deputy President William Ruto yesterday returned to Makueni County for the second time within two months to seek supports of residents.   Ruto started his tour by meeting more than 1,000 UDA delegates from the region at the home of party county coordinator James Mbaluka at Kasemeini village, off Kibwezi town.  The DP asked the delegates to be his ambassadors in the grassroots. He said other leaders seeking the presidency had nothing to offer the region and the country. Ruto said the country needs a well-thought-out plan, like the bottom-up economic model, that will offer solid solutions to the major challenges.    Ruto, Raila rallies fail to inspire voter registration   Why Raila, Ruto hardliners have taken a backseat   Wooing ex-Nasa leaders, Uhuru deal might help Ruto in 2022 race  DP Ruto to give Makueni sex workers Sh1m He noted that the Jubilee government has constructed roads in the region among other projects.   “Ukambani has been in the cold for many years. I have come here today to make a declaration so that we can walk together and form the next government. Kenya cannot be built by stipends. We need jobs and business opportunities that will make them economically independent,” he said.  Later the DP addressed residents during stopovers at Mtito Andei, Kiambu, Kinyambu, Kibwezi, Mbuinzau, Kiundwani and Makindu along the Mombasa Nairobi highway.  He claimed that ODM leader Raila Odinga's Sh6,000 stipend to the poor was outright conmanship saying that unemployment of the youths was a serious issue that needed practical and sustainable solutions.  “This region needs farmers to have money set aside to uplift their hustle. That is the reason my government will set aside Sh100 billion for programmes that will create employment for the millions of youths who have degrees, diplomas but are jobless, and have been listed in Credit Reference Bureau,” he added  Deputy President William Ruto. [DPPS]  Ruto noted that Sh50 billion will go towards boosting SMEs through Saccos while another Sh50 billion will go to agriculture.  He said bottom-up economic model will ensure government resources are distributed equitably across the country.  "It is only by changing the economy that we will be able to employ more youths, and empower small businesses," he added.  At the same time, Ruto said tribal parties cannot form the next government. He claimed that UDA has the biggest number of MPs in Parliament followed by ODM.  "A tribal political party cannot form a government; the next government will be formed by a party that has the backing of the majority of Kenyans and that is UDA that has a big number of MPs, Others have 20 MPs and are calling themselves national parties,” he claimed  Leaders who accompanied the DP were; Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok, MPs Victor Munyaka (Machakos), Katoo Ole Metito (Kajiado South), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), and Nimrod Mbai (Kitui East), former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama and former Kilome MP Regina Ndambuki.  Mr Muthama said Ruto has a track record of uniting and transforming the country.  The former senator and Mr Mbaluka accused Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka of being Ukambani kingpin who doesn’t have anything to offer the region.  “We have been voting for Raila and Kalonzo and the time they decided to enter the Jubilee government they did so for their personal needs and not for the region. We are past politics of personal interest, we want a government and leaders who are inclusive,” Mbaluka said.   HEALTH WATCH: Why is eye care important? Even as 7.5M Kenyans reported to have treatable eye disease  Wesley Kiprono emerges overall winner of 2nd Leg of 2021/22 Standard County Golf series  Muungano wa wazalendo congregate in Kirinyaga county hosted by Martha Karua By Grace Ng'ang'a | 6 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 6 hours ago By Washington Onyango | 6 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 6 hours ago