Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has officially joined the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party.  The Governor's communication confirmed the move to The Standard after Waiguru met Deputy President Wiliam Ruto at his Karen residence in Nairobi on Tuesday morning.  Governor Waiguiru allayed she made the decision based on her constituents’ needs saying she had sought intervention before concluding.  “I have asked if it is betrayal if I moved? But the message I have gotten is that you must be careful to stay relevant in politics. The people are the ones who decide for you. When they decide you stand, you will do it.  And the people of Kirinyaga have spoken,” she noted.  “Sisi tumeamua, tumevuka. (We have shifted allegiance),” the Kirinyaga county chief added.   I don't mind competition, Ngirici reacts to Waiguru's defection  Military Coup In Sudan  Sudan capital locked down after coup triggers deadly unrest  DP Ruto: Waiguru is bold for joining UDA Waiguru was accompanied by a section of Kirinyaga MCAs to the meeting.   Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru at Wanguru Stadium, Kirinyaga County. [Elvis Ogina, Standard]  She had in September this year hinted at seeking re-election on a UDA ticket.  Addressing a roadside gathering at Thiba area in Mwea, Kirinyaga County on September 22, the county chief posed “Which political party do you want me to seek re-election on?", to which the majority chanted "UDA".  Waiguru further posed to the crowd, “If I vie on that party ticket, will you re-elect me come 2022?”  But her defection from Jubilee was and warmup to UDA was only a matter of time, with the county chief alleging frustrations after she raised concerns on Jubilee’s future.  Waiguru’s defection however presents another political battle between her and Kirinyaga Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici, who has also expressed interest in vying for the gubernatorial seat on a UDA ticket.  Ngirici is an ally and avid supporter of DP Ruto’s 2022 presidential ambitions.  Last month, Ngirici said she was happy to welcome Waiguru to UDA after the governor said she was open to working with the Ruto-linked party ahead of 2022.   Musalia Mudavadi is expected in Meru county in his heightened political activities to woo the region  Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao  Musalia Mudavadi embarks on his charm offensive in the coast region ahead of the 2022 elections By Winfrey Owino | 1 hour ago By Betty Njeru | 4 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 5 hours ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 6 hours ago