Some of the members of the Tana River, Isiolo and Marsabit professionals during a press briefing when they pledged to support Raila Odinga [Phares Mutembei, Standard]  A team of professionals from Isiolo, Marsabit and Tana River counties has declared support for ODM leader Raila Odinga's presidential bid.  Drawn from medical, teaching, environmental protection and other fields, the professionals threw their weight behind Raila, attributing their decision to his (Raila's) contribution to national development and his unity and partnership with President Uhuru Kenyatta.  Under the aegis of ‘Tim-Azimio’ (Tana River, Isiolo, Marsabit), the group said it was attracted to join Raila’s side because of his ‘Azimio la Umoja’ initiative, whose main objective is to bring all Kenyan tribes on board to achieve national unity and economic transformation.  In a press statement read by their Chairman Dr Turqa Jirmo, the group said it was ready to walk with Raila.  Mukami Kimathi homage: Raila retraces father’s steps 50 years later   Ruto, Raila use Mashujaa Day fete to reach out to voters  Raila: Mwai Kibaki is my hero  Mt Kenya East leaders endorse Raila Odinga for the presidency in 2022   “Tim-Azimio and the entire community in our region resonate very well with Azimio la Umoja,” Dr Jirmo said.  He said Raila had, as a partner in former President Mwai Kibaki’s coalition government, played a key role in major infrastructural development in the region, including the construction of the 800km Isiolo-Moyale road, Isiolo International Airport, Galana and Tana River irrigation schemes, among other projects.  “The development record is a clear manifest that Raila and President Kenyatta have built rapport and trust. They have earned our political support. In the coming election, we look forward to this continuity and completion of pending projects and initiation of more. The only person we believe can deliver is Raila,” they said.  The professionals listed various development projects they want Raila to deliver, if he becomes president.   Pulpit Politics: ODM leader Raila Odinga welcomes move to ban politicians speaking in church  Raila Odinga is set to begin a 2-day in Western Kenya, he is to have consultative meetings  Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens By Erastus M Mulwa | 2 hours ago By George Njunge | 2 hours ago By Jackline Inyanji | 2 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 6 hours ago