Facebook Inc's suite of apps. [Courtesy]  Facebook Inc's suite of apps, including popular photo-sharing platform Instagram and messaging app WhatsApp, were down for tens of thousands of users, according to outage tracking website Downdetector.com.  Reuters could not immediately confirm the issue affecting the services. However, the error message on Facebook's webpage suggested a Domain Name System (DNS) error.  DNS allows web addresses to take users to their destinations. A similar outage at cloud company Akamai Technologies Inc (AKAM.O) took down multiple websites in July. read more  Downdetector, which only tracks outages by collating status reports from a series of sources, including user-submitted errors on its platform, showed there were more than 50,000 incidents of people reporting issues with Facebook and Instagram. The outage might be affecting a larger number of users.  Man returns home after 47 years, annoyed to find his two wives remarried  Insta-harm: What researchers have found about dangers of Instagram   How social media has robbed us of life’s little surprises  Absa profit jumps 833pc to Sh5.6 billion Meanwhile, the social-media giant's instant messaging platform WhatsApp was also down for over 22,000 users, while Messenger was down for nearly 3,000 users.  WhatsApp was also trending on Twitter Inc (TWTR.N), with more than 850,000 tweets.  "We're aware that some people are experiencing issues with WhatsApp at the moment," the messaging platform's official Twitter handle said. "We're working to get things back to normal and will send an update here as soon as possible."  Both WhatsApp and Facebook took to their official Twitter handles and apologise to their clients for the inconvenience but promised they were working to bring things back to normal.  “We’re aware that some people are experiencing issues with WhatsApp at the moment. We’re working to get things back to normal and will send an update here as soon as possible. Thanks for your patience!” WhatsApp posted on their Twitter Account.  “We’re aware that some people are having trouble accessing the Facebook app. We’re working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible, and we apologise for any inconvenience.”  More to follow...   Edgar Obare's Instagram Account de-activated | HOT TOPICS  WhatsApp users have until 15th May to accept a privacy policy on the platform  VIRTUAL MANYATTAS: Teacher in Kajiado County using WhatsApp to conduct classes By Reuters | 6 hours ago By Reuters | 6 hours ago By Reuters | 7 hours ago By Reuters | 23 hours ago