The buffalo attacked the 54-year-old man on Wednesday, October 20. [File, Standard]  A 54-year-old man is recuperating at the Garissa County Referral Hospital after he was attacked by a buffalo on Wednesday morning.  The man was herding his goats on the field at Holugho area in Ijara Sub-County, when a buffalo charged towards him and gored him in the groin, ripping off his penis.  The victim is now crying for justice, hoping the Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) would compensate him.  KWS officer in charge of human-wildlife conflict affairs, Grace Nzale, said the agency will investigate the incident and react appropriately.  Manyattas get lights and fences to deter big cats  Probe begins on death of businessman in Lake Nakuru National Park  KWS appeals for help in tracing missing warden  Inside Kenya’s wildlife census In yet another incident, a 26-year-old man from Holugho is undergoing treatment at the Garissa Hospital after he was attacked by two hippos on Monday.  Area chief Farha Ethow Siyat said the victim, Mahat Miskok Adat, was attacked at 10am by the hippos at a community water point, where he had taken his cattle.  The animals bit him in the back and dragged him on the ground with their teeth latched in his body.  Medics at Garissa Hospital told The Standard that Adat will have to undergo specialised treatment following the serious injuries he sustained in the attack.  The victim’s uncle, Said Mohamud, said they have filed a complaint with the KWS.  At least Sh500 million has been released by the Government to compensate wildlife attack victims, whose cases were reported between 2014 and 2021.   Developing: Two KWS staffers die after plane crashed soon after take-off in Nanyuki  KWS aims to recruit 5,500 youths to help combat human-wildlife conflict  Nafasi kwa Ajira KWS: Vijana 80 kunufaika Taita Taveta katika zoezi la kuwaajiri vijana 5500 nchini By Moses Nyamori | 2 days ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 5 days ago By Reuters | 6 days ago By Abdimalik Hajir | 8 days ago