Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja [Boniface Okendo, Standard]  As the race for the top county seat gains momentum in Taita-Taveta, Governor Granton Samboja has changed tack in his campaigns to recapture the seat.  The county boss is engaging local and foreign gospel singers, including religious leaders, to spice up his vote hunt. The team has been attracting huge crowds to listen to his development agenda.  A number of aspirants have declared their interest to unseat him, including former governor John Mruttu.  Yesterday, he was accompanied by two Tanzania gospel singers William Ilima and Nkone Upendo who entertained the public in Mwatate town.   Samboja turns to foreign artists to drum up re-election bid  Ward reps spell out conditions for supporting Samboja in 2022  Taita-Taveta University gets new VC  Several KDF soldiers feared dead in Tsavo military plane crash   The singers drummed up support for the governor’s re-election bid, outlining his development track record where they likened him to former Tanzania President the late John Magufuli, whom they refer to as “mchapa kazi. (A performer)”  Samboja said the singers were his longtime friends and promised the locals that many more from neighbouring countries will visit in December. Ilima said: “The governor, who is ending his first term has done a lot in development. We are likening him to our former President who did Tanzanians proud for the short period he served.”  Upendo said the governor’s political enemies will soon disintegrate. “The governor has donated motorcycles to local youth worth more than Sh2 million to help transform their lives. Locals should re-elect him so that he can complete his projects,” she said.  Samboja also rallies support for ODM leader Raila Odinga’s presidential bid. “I have joined his political bandwagon because of his’ Azimio la Umoja’, whose objective is to bring Kenyans together,” said Samboja, who was elected on a Wiper party ticket in 2017. Politicians Dan Mwazo and Andrew Mwadime, and lawyer Stephen Mwakesi are among those eyeing the seat.   Taita Taveta MCAs allege loss of Kshs 600 million through graft  Promo; The Chamwada Report Living with El Nino The case of Taita Taveta  KTN Weekend Prime Full Bulletin, 22nd August 2015 By Biketi Kikechi | 4 hours ago By Jackline Inyanji | 7 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 8 hours ago By  Erastus Mulwa | 11 hours ago