Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui (L) and ODM leader Raila Odinga (centre) during a past event in Naivasha. [Antony Gitonga, Standard]  ODM leader Raila Odinga has called on the government to review contracts between Kenya Power and independent power producers (IPPs).  Speaking in Naivasha yesterday after a meeting with local leaders, Raila said the only solution in addressing the high cost of electricity in the country lies in reviewing all power contracts between the utility company and the independent producers.  The former premier accused the independent power suppliers and unnamed individuals of fleecing the country through expensive deals signed in unclear circumstances.    Raila, OKA chiefs’ allies land plum State jobs  Mt Kenya jigsaw puzzle for Raila, OKA bosses  I won’t declare bid for top seat with unarmed troops, Raila says  Raila Odinga backs CS Magoha on CBC rollout He made the remarks a few days after the government declared the electricity company a special project following spiralling electricity tariffs.  Raila said the high cost of electricity had affected manufacturers and the common mwananchi.  “The government has moved in to address the high cost of electricity and in case it is unable to resolve this, then my government will be there to cushion mwananchi,” he said.  Raila took issue with the high tax regime targeting flower farmers, noting that this was affecting investor confidence.  He also defended Naivasha-based Keroche Breweries, which has been battling competitors and the taxman for long, saying the government should be at the forefront in defending local investors.  “We need to review our taxes and protect local investors so that they can create employment for millions of jobless youth,” he said.  On youth issues, Raila said if elected as the country’s fifth president, his government would have the face of the youth in the Cabinet.  He said that for years, the youth had been forgotten, adding that he would make sure they were part of decision making in realising the Kenyan dream.  Raila revisited the near-collapse of the fisheries sector in Lake Naivasha through pollution, noting that through his efforts as the PM, the issue of effluents was addressed. He also called for an end to harassment by Kenya Coast Guard.  He took a swipe at Deputy President William Ruto over his promises of wheelbarrows to the youth at a time the country was going digital.  Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui said Naivasha should be elevated due to the number of conferences it holds.  Others who spoke included Kieni MP Kanini Kega, Suna East's Junet Mohamed and former presidential aspirant Peter Kenneth.    Pulpit Politics: ODM leader Raila Odinga welcomes move to ban politicians speaking in church  Raila Odinga is set to begin a 2-day in Western Kenya, he is to have consultative meetings  Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens By Josphat Thiong’o | 3 hours ago By James Munyeki and Ndungu Gachane | 3 hours ago By Biketi Kikechi | 3 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 3 hours ago