An inventory of the late former Nominated MP Mark Too’s multi-billion-shilling estate is to be tabled before a new judge at the High Court in Eldoret  Too’s two widows will table the inventory before Justice Reuben Nyakundi after Justice Stephen Githinji was transferred.  When the matter came up for hearing yesterday, it was adjourned until later this month  During the first hearing in June, the two widows – Mary Jepkemboi and her co-wife Sophia Jelimo – agreed to act as joint administrators of the estate.    How Moi met Too and Berngetuny  Too and Barngetuny: Mr Fixit, the lion killer who gained Mzee Moi’s trust  Jubilee allied MCAs de-whipped  Teachers want share of Mark Too's property They consented after Justice Githinji ordered that they carry out their duties as administrators.  “By consent of all the parties, I, therefore, declare the two widows as administrators of the estate. It is hereby agreed that letters of administration to the estate of the late Mark Kiptarbei Too are issued to the two widows. The two will come up with a list of what constitutes the entire estate,” ordered Justice Githinji.  The duo had fallen out at the onset of the legal battle for property, with the first wife claiming that she was the only legal wife of Too.  In 2018, the two widows had filed a joint case for letters of administration stating that “the deceased left behind a vast estate which is scattered and is at risk of being wasted if the court does not appoint an administrator urgently.”  But the two later fell out in 2019 after Jepkemboi, through her fresh statements submitted to the court, argued that she was the only legal wife of the late MP having solemnised their wedding traditionally and later in church.  Too had interests in agribusiness, large-scale dairy, maize and wheat farming.  At stake also are multi-million shilling homes in Nairobi, Nakuru and Eldoret. There is also Sh500 million in various bank accounts.  The estate also includes 19 farms in Nakuru, Uasin Gishu, Nandi and Trans Nzoia counties,10 trailers, 10 tractors,11 vehicles and shares in six companies.  Jepkemboi has four children (Elizabeth Chepkoech Too, Moses Kiprotich Too, Jennifer Jebet Too and Daniel Kipchirchir Too) while Jelimo has three (Sandra Jerop Too, Kevin Kipkemei Too and Sharon Jepchumba Too).  Four others have filed their applications, claiming to be children of the late MP who were born out of wedlock and want a share of the estate.  Jepkoech, Ali Mark, Arafat Mohammed Bakari and Sammy Waki Mulili, who is now deceased, claim that they were fathered by Too.  Too died aged 60 on December 31, 2016, due to a heart attack.  The hearing will resume on October 26.  By Moses Nyamori | 40 minutes ago By Frankline Sunday | 3 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 3 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 9 hours ago