Lamu Senator Anwar Loitiptip said he was attacked at a hotel in Nanyuki. [File, Standard]  A 32-year-old woman is nursing gunshot wounds at the Nanyuki Teaching and Referral Hospital after a confrontation erupted between her and Lamu Senator Anwar Loitiptip.  Police reports seen by The Standard show the incident that left Joy Makena with gunshot injuries took place at Kanu Grounds in Nanyuki town, Laikipia County.  “Joy Makena, aged 32 years was shoot [sic] on her right leg above the ankle after a quarrel ensued between her and the senator Lamu county Hon. Anwar,” part of the police report read.  According to the police, they received a tip-off from the public who notified Nanyuki Police Station of a shooting incident at 2am on Saturday night.  Did UK soldier take part in Kenyan woman murder?  Duma Team ready for KCB Nanyuki Autocross race  The Lunatic Express puffs and lurches on, a century later  Fire on Nairobi bound train contained, Kenya Railways says Lamu Senator Anwar Loitiptip received treatment after last night incident. [Mireri Junior, Standard]  It is then that the officers launched investigations, visited the scene, and recovered a firearm with 13 bullets from Senator Anwar’s security detail.  When sought for comment, Anwar said he was attacked at the hotel in Nanyuki and had shot in the air to scare his attackers away.  Senator Anwar sought treatment after last night's shooting incident. [Mireri Junior, Standard]  Speaking to The Standard via a phone call on Sunday morning, the legislator said he had gone for a checkup and would release a statement on his account of events afterwards.  "I am at a hospital for some checkup and will speak on the matter later, but the truth is that I was attacked by a knive-wielding gang last night," he said.  The senator did not disclose the hospital he went to for the checkup.  Police said the lawmaker’s whereabouts are yet to be established and that Makena was in stable condition.    Treni ya mafuta iliyokuwa ikisafiri kutoka Nanyuki kuelekea Nairobi yashika moto huko Sagana  Developing: Two KWS staffers die after plane crashed soon after take-off in Nanyuki  Twende Nanyuki Project | KTN News Special By Fidelis Kabunyi | 2 days ago By Kamore Maina | 3 days ago By Wainaina Ndung’u | 4 days ago By Jane Mugambi | 4 days ago