The Government has asked residents residing along road reserves in Mukuru Kwa Njenga slums to vacate.  Nairobi Regional Commissioner, James Kianda, said the expansion of Catherine Ndereba Road will commence soon and residents should give way for the construction.    Kianda noted the road will connect the Nairobi Expressway with Industrial Area and also open up the slum for business.   “This road will act as an exit from the Expressway at a link road that is being constructed around City Cabanas junction. Businesses that are situated along the road, like Jua Kali are expected to pick up,” said Kianda.  Kianda added that the road, once completed will reduce traffic congestion.   Demolitions at Mukuru kwa Njenga ongoing, to pave way for Nairobi Expressway [Photos]  Nairobi Expressway: Haile Selassie-UoN Roundabout stretch to be opened on October 15  Nairobi Expressway: Ruaka to JKIA will take 30 minutes   Nairobi Expressway to be commissioned in six months, says CS “Plans were underway to start putting up the railway station, but we realised that it was not going to serve any function since it could not be accessed. The road will however enable residents access amenities like schools and hospitals,” explained Kianda.  Kianda added that due to the conditions in the slums, some of the public utilities that had been targeted cannot be implemented.   "The Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS) and security officers will supervise the demolition of the informal structures that have been set up. We ask residents to cooperate with the contractors," he said.   He added that they had consulted with the area Member of Parliament, Benjamin Gathiru and the MCA to ensure that the demolitions are conducted in a smooth manner.    Dhehebu la Makalasinga laanzisha mpango wa kuwapikia familia za Mukuru Kwa Njenga  Kenyans to pay Sh600 a day in toll fees, to use the Nairobi Expressway upon completion in 2021  "UNGODLY EDUCATION": The Mukuru woman who pulled her children out of school By Robert Abong'o | 2 hours ago By Wainaina Ndung'u | 10 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 1 day ago By Collins Kweyu | 1 day ago