Two people died, and two others were injured in a grisly road accident involving a bus and a saloon car along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway. In the Saturday night accident at Karai centre, 10 kilometres from Naivasha town a saloon was involved in a head-on collision with a bus. The two bodies were trapped in the wreckage of the car for hours as a local team of road safety officials cut through the metal to retrieve them. The two female passengers were admitted to the Naivasha Sub-county hospital in critical condition. The incident came barely a week after traffic police officers expressed concern over the increasing number of fatal accidents since the curfew was lifted. According to James Kabono, from Naivasha Road Safety Group, the driver of the saloon car with four occupants was on heading to Nairobi. He said the driver was overtaking a fleet of vehicles around midnight when he rammed into the oncoming bus destined for Western Kenya. “The two men who were seated in the front seats died on the spot while two women in the back seat were seriously injured,” he said. Naivasha police commander Samuel Waweru said the accident was caused by reckless driving and that three passengers in the bus escaped with minor injuries. “Speeding is the main cause of the accidents,” he said. Meanwhile, the Kenya National Highway Authority (KENHA) has closed down a section of the Naivasha-Njabini road that is under construction. The Kinamba-Githioro section will be closed for 21 days, according to an advert by the authority. Only emergency passenger cars will be allowed to pass. “All other vehicles heading to Njabini or Naivasha are requested to use alternative routes to pave for the completion of the ongoing works,” reads the statement. mgitonga@standardmedia.co.ke   Serikali ya kaunti ya Nakuru yatoa pendekezo la kuzuia uvuvi katika ziwa Naivasha  Uvuvi Haramu Naivasha: Wavuvi haramu wanatumia vifaa vibovu, baadhi ni neti zilizopigwa marufuku  Mwanamme ajaribu kujitoa uhai Naivasha, alikata koo kwa kigae cha chupa By Stephen Rutto | 1 day ago By Yvonne Chepkwony | 2 days ago By Peter Ochieng  | 2 days ago By Nikko Tanui | 2 days ago