Some of the drugs were in branded packaging. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Police in Nakuru have launched a manhunt for a man in whose house bhang with an estimated street value of Sh1.2 million was found.  Nakuru East Sub-county Police Commander Elena Kabukuru said that the police carried out the raid following a tip-off.  "At around noon, we raided a house in Lumumba area within Bondeni slums. The occupant managed to escape," said Kabukuru.  The bhang was nabbed at Lumumba area in Bondeni Slums, Nakuru town. October 22, 2021. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  Nakuru: Man charged with wife’s gruesome murder  Family pays tribute to businessman found dead in park  Two brothers, Nakuru county administration face off over prime property  Police: Man ferrying bhang fled crash scene Kabukuru said the police also recovered substances, believed to be drugs, in branded packaging.  "We suspect that some of the drugs might have been on transit," she added.  She went on to reveal that the raid was met with resistance after local youth hurled stones at police officers to protect a suspect.  "Lumumba area is notorious for crime and drugs. We are intensifying our crackdown to protect the youth," said Kabukuru.  Some of the drugs seized during the raid. [Kipsang Joseph, Standard]  The seizure comes a day after the police raided the neighbouring Lakeview Estate where they arrested 13 suspected members of the 'Confirm' criminal gang.  During the raid, police officers recovered homemade guns and mobile phones, among other items, linked to crime.  The gang has been linked to the peddling of drugs in the area.   Tussle over the ownership of land in Ngongogeri, Nakuru threatening peace amongst disputing parties  A total of 24 unclaimed bodies to be buried in Nakuru upon expiry of a 21-day-period  Residents of Nakuru to wait longer before they can enjoy water supply from the Itare dam project By  Julius Chepkwony and Nikko Tanui  | 5 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 6 hours ago By Gilbert Kimutai | 10 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 14 hours ago