Amani National Congress Party Leader Musalia Mudavadi addresses mourners during the burial of Lawyer Evans Monari at Nyakongo Nyamira County on October 17, 2021.(Sammy Omingo,Standard)  Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi has called for political tolerance ahead of the 2022 General Election.  Speaking at Harvest Family Church in Rongai, Mudavadi warned that the political trajectory the country has taken is dangerous and could lead to violence if not tamed.  Citing the recent events where leaders have been pelted with stones and jeered during campaigns, Mudavadi called on Kenyans to exercise restrain and maintain peace.  “The leadership of this country should be anchored on the church. We need to say no to violence. Violence can be a dangerous destroyer of our economy,” he said.  Mudavadi under pressure to join Raila, but trust issues won’t fade  MP, Khalwale differ over calls to support Mudavadi  Ruto: Uhuru tips have kept me ahead of the pack  ‘Forces of doom’ keen to scuttle our plans, say Kalonzo and Mudavadi Mudavadi called on Kenyans to enlist in the ongoing mass voter registration to enable them have say on the next leadership of the country.    The ANC leader who is eyeing the presidency told Kenyans to shun politicians who incite them to cause violence and do not respect the rule of law and independent institutions.  “Let our votes define our future. Those who aren't yet registered should make good use of this last week of mass voter registration to get registered,” he said.  “We don't want to have a leader who will give us sleepless nights. We want peaceful pre and post electioneering period so that we can be able to thrive our economy in such an environment,” he added.  Mudavadi who was accompanied by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, MPs Ayub Savula (Lugari), Peter Nabulindo (Matungu), ANC chairman Kelvin Lunani and Secretary General Simon Gikuru, called on the church to pray for the country and offer direction on leadership choices.  “If the foundation of our nation’s leadership is anchored in the church, then as a country we shall achieve a lot. I want to remind Kenyans that the absence of peace and tolerance can be very destructive on the same economy that I want to rebuilt and grow once I assume the presidency next year,” he said.  He said his agenda is to revive the ailing economy, create jobs, provide enabling environment for businesses to thrive and ensure the education system works for all.  “I want people to put food on the table; fathers be able to provide for their families and women be given an environment where their small enterprises grow to big businesses. This is my agenda for this great country,” he said.  “Who can you trust to manage the economy? Who can you trust to obey the rule of law? Who can you trust to ensure the education of your children is guaranteed?” He posed.  Mudavadi said voter apathy was responsible for bad leadership and called on youths acquire national identity card and register as voters.  “There are millions of uncollected ID cards at chiefs’ offices. I call upon the many people who have not collected the same to do so and ensure they register as voters. That is the only way we can elect the leadership we deserve,” he said.   Addressing the public in Rongai town, the ANC leader urged the electorate to elect leaders of integrity who have the interests of the country at heart and shun those promoting politics of handouts at the expense of providing practical solutions affecting the country.  “Our economy is doing bad and we need practical solutions to resuscitate it not lies meant to hoodwink the youth. The country pockets are empty and let no one lie to you that there is money to be handed out. We need practical solutions to create decent jobs and not handouts and wheelbarrows,” he said.  Sakaja urged Kenyans not to a repeat of the 2007/2008 post-election violence.  “We pray for tolerance so that we can accept each other and be able to visit any part of the country for campaigns. Bad leaders are elected by good people who choose not to vote,” said the Nairobi Senator.  He said Mudavadi is the only leader who has what it takes to steer economic growth of the country and manage the public debt.  “I believe in the Mudavadi leadership. We want peace and unity and these can only be achieved with a Mudavadi presidency,” he said   Musalia Mudavadi is expected in Meru county in his heightened political activities to woo the region  Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao  Musalia Mudavadi embarks on his charm offensive in the coast region ahead of the 2022 elections By Biketi Kikechi | 4 hours ago By Jackline Inyanji | 7 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 8 hours ago By  Erastus Mulwa | 11 hours ago