Deputy President William Ruto is on a three-day tour of Kisii County. [File, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto has formulated a guarded approach in his church politics as he takes his  ‘Bottom-Up’ Economic Development Model to the pulpit as his three-day tour of the Gusii land begins.  While addressing congregants during a church service at the Deliverance Church International in Kisii town, Ruto reiterated that his bottom-up economic ideology, which has been widely opposed by his rival politicians, was just a way of lifting the jobless without leaving anyone behind.  “He (God) raises the poor out of the dust and makes them sit with the kings and princes,” he quoted a Bible verse from Psalms 113:7-8 after which he donated Sh1 million and pledged another million from the proceeds of his chicken sale.  Despite the DP continuing his politicking on the church’s pulpit, he was careful not to cross the line.  Raila, Ruto factor to shape Nakuru governorship race  DP Ruto returns to Raila’s Nyanza backyard for a two-day visit  DP Ruto: BBI was the most fraudulent undertaking by a regime in Kenya’s history   Ruto-Raila contest: Is their switch of style by political design or fate? He made sure his message was home to those he was addressing, spoke in parables, referred to the Bible in some instances and at one point even asked the Bishop if he had crossed the line.  The holder of the country’s second most powerful office took a swipe at his rivals who go to church in competition with him.  “Many politicians come to church because I have evangelized to them. Please welcome them even though they come with a lot of noise sometimes. Some preach the word of God out of strife, envy and presence, what matters is that the word of God is being preached,” he added.  Ruto started his three-day tour of Kisii County on Saturday, October 3 evening, until Monday.  He is expected to hold several meetings with the local leaders and attend two church services at Deliverance Church in Kisii Town before proceeding to Kenyenya Catholic Church.  After the church service, the expected United Democratic Alliance presidential candidate in next year’s polls will open Bomachoge Chache CDF offices in Ogembo town, then address residents in the afternoon.  Details revealed by Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi (coordinator of the tour) indicated that Ruto will visit South Mugirango and Nyamarambee on Monday morning.  “He will visit South Mugirango Constituency where he will launch two new buses for two secondary schools in the area before addressing members of the public at Nyamarambe,” Maangi said.   "Mimi niko ready, any moment," Ruto says he is ready to reconcile with Uhuru without any conditions  CS Matiang'i hits again as Deputy President William Ruto fights back | PRESS REVIEW  Exploring the preparedness and the key timeliness of the IEBC to conduct the 2022 General Elections By Steve Mkawale | 2 hours ago By Eric Abuga | 7 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 9 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 10 hours ago