Evans Monari died on October 4, after a long illness. [File, Standard]  First Lady Margaret Kenyatta has paid tribute to renowned lawyer Evans Monari, who died on Monday night, October 4, at the Nairobi Hospital after a long illness.  Paying tribute on behalf of President Uhuru Kenyatta at Nairobi Central SDA Church, Margaret described Monari as a music lover and distinguished lawyer who touched the lives of many.  “Monari was a celebrated and well-respected lawyer by his colleagues. He was full of humour and his love for music was unmatched. Truly, he has left a mark in the lives of everyone he interacted with,” President Kenyatta’s statement read in part.  Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, who was in attendance alongside former Chief Justice David Maraga, advocate Donald Kipkorir and ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna, described the late Monari as a free-spirited man who was not constrained by customs.  Musalia Mudavadi urges President Uhuru to lift curfew  Lawyer Evans Monari amuses mourners at funeral with tribute to himself  Support us in Covid-19 vaccination efforts, Uhuru urges Biden  Moving: Lawyer Evans Monari’s tribute to himself “He spoke to everyone despite who they were. He would bring us together as a community,” Matiang’i said.  The late Lawyer Evans Monari. [File, Standard]  According to the deceased’s daughter Cynthia, the lawyer had immeasurable love for music and books.  “He enjoyed playing golf, horseracing and football. His love for books grew him into the brilliant and intellectual man you all knew. He also became the chairman of sax and violins lounge (Waterfront, Karen) because of his love for music,” mourned Cynthia.  In her tribute, Monari’s widow Jackline Okindo described the deceased as a ‘remarkable, dependable, loving and caring husband’.  “My companion and dear friend, time cut us short but happiness shared will last a lifetime,” eulogized Okindo in a tribute read by her sister Monica.  Monari’s mother Teresia Bosibori, on her part, called on beneficiaries of her son’s legal work to support her daughter-in-law and grandchildren.  The lawyer is survived by his wife, Okindo and four children; Cynthia, Michelle, Joshua and Jeremy.  He will be laid to rest at his home in Nyakongo village, Nyamira County, on Sunday, October 17. He was 58.   "Mimi niko ready, any moment," Ruto says he is ready to reconcile with Uhuru without any conditions  HOUSE OF CARDS: Is the State secretly engineering plot to have a compromise candidate succeed Uhuru?  Rais Uhuru Kenyatta adai kuwa Kenya ipo tayari kwa mashindano ya WRC By Stephen Rutto | 2 hours ago By Nyambega Gisesa | 2 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura | 2 hours ago By Kamau Muthoni | 2 hours ago