Brian Wanjala Wabwire, 21, went missing from the university’s main campus on Magadi Road on October 4, 2021. [Courtesy]  A Second-Year student of Multimedia University of Kenya has gone missing in unclear circumstances.  Brian Wanjala Wabwire, 21, went missing from the university’s main campus on Magadi Road on October 4.  His college mates say he was seen in the company of his girlfriend shortly before he went missing.  His friends told The Standard that Wabwire appeared disturbed on the day he went missing. One of his confidants said Wabwire had been threatened of unspecified consequences by a person he owed Sh8,000.  She owes no one Big a** and Tight boobs- Bae comes to the rescue of cyber-bullied beauty queen  She owes no one Big a** and Tight boobs- Bae comes to the rescue of cyber-bullied beauty queen Wabwire, a Bachelor of Applied Communication student, was leaving the university compound for the hostels located at Maasai Lodge area, when he vanished.  “He had left his mobile phone charging in the hostel,” said one of his friends identified as Ayiecho.  On October 5, his college mates filed a missing person’s report at the Ongata Rongai Police Station under the OB Number 87/5/10/2021.  His mother, who lives in Sinoko Village, Kanduyi Constituency in Bungoma County, has urged police to expedite investigations into her son’s disappearance.  “I last spoke with him on October 4 in morning hours before he was reported missing,” said Eunice Wabwire, the student’s mother.  “On that day, he asked to speak with his younger brother, who is set to join Masinde Muliro University [of Science and Technology]. He (Brian) advised the younger sibling to take his studies seriously and keep good company once he joins college,” said Eunice, stating she had sacrificed a lot to educate the 21-year-old.  “I sold a parcel of land and other personal property to ensure he got good education.”  Brian’s elder brother, Meshack Wafula Wabwire, has since travelled to Nairobi in search of his sibling.  “I have visited several hospitals, morgues and police stations in search of my brother, but the efforts have been futile,” said Meshack.  If you have reports about Brian Wabwire’s whereabouts, alert any nearby police station, or reach his brother, Meshack, on 0757 141 100.  By Mireri Junior | 4 hours ago By  James Wanzala  | 4 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 22 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 23 hours ago