ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi addresses mourners in Likuyani, Kakamega County. August 2021. [Courtesy]  Malava MP Malulu Injendi clashed with former Kakamega Senator Bonny Khalwale over calls to rally behind Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi ahead of next year's General Election.  Injendi called on Western leaders to support Mudavadi to ensure he clinches the presidency.  Speaking in Mutsuma village during the burial of Daina Inyangala, he said every politician is free to vie on their preferred party.  Malava MP Malulu Injendi. [Elvis Ogina,Standard]  Mudavadi under pressure to join Raila, but trust issues won’t fade  Mudavadi calls for political tolerance  ‘Forces of doom’ keen to scuttle our plans, say Kalonzo and Mudavadi  Mudavadi: Youths need incentives not handouts, empty promises  "Khalwale is a senior politician and well known in Kakamega county. He should use his political muscles the way he did for Raila in 2013 and 2017 to campaign for Musalia. ANC is your home. That is why I am urging you to join the party and strengthen it so we can help our party leader clinch the presidency by voting as a bloc," he said.  Injendi further noted that the region is lagging behind in development because locals don't vote as a bloc.  But Dr Khalwale said that if Mudavadi wants the support of locals he should engage them.  "I'm appealing to Mudvadi to do what locals want if he wants us to support him. I'm supporting Deputy President William Ruto for being in the forefront in ensuring Butali Sugar Company gets license I'm supporting Ruto because we must change the conversation through empowering locals," he noted.  Former Kakamega Senator Bonny Khalwale. [Mumo Munuve, Standard]  The former senator urged MCAs and MPs to draft a Bill to compel sugar factories to issue permits to farmers unconditionally.  "Delayed permit and cane poaching should be stopped through Members of Parliament in Kakamega, Vihiga and Bungoma counties tabling a Motion to end this stalemate in sugar industries. We should fight for the interest of the farmers. Middlemen are shortchanging farmers thus making them get peanuts," Khalwale noted.   Musalia Mudavadi is expected in Meru county in his heightened political activities to woo the region  Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao  Musalia Mudavadi embarks on his charm offensive in the coast region ahead of the 2022 elections By Biketi Kikechi | 4 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 8 hours ago By  Erastus Mulwa | 11 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 11 hours ago