Shareholders of Kagaa Farmers Cooperative Society have been given an option of parting with Sh300,000 to own plots in its farms.  The shareholders had been allocated the prime plots in farms in Maragua, but they risk losing them if they do not pay the top-up fees. The cooperative owns plots near Kabati and Kenol markets. Block Two land was intended for 900 members and land at Santa More was for 3,000 members.  Block Two is adjacent to the Kenol - Nairobi highway and next to where the government plans to construct more than 500 affordable houses. The society also has other tracts of land in Kilifi County. The management has been fighting to secure it from land grabbers.  On Saturday, a meeting convened by Liquidators Peter Wanjohi and Suleiman Wandati ended in disarray after the 274 shareholders walked out. They claimed no proper explanation was given on how the debt was arrived at.  Over 40 dairy goats die after being vaccinated  Bandits attack, kill Kerio Valley’s multi-million fruit farming mentor  Agriculture sector yet to fully recover from Covid-19 effects  Haaland scores twice on return to send Dortmund top of Bundesliga The shareholders led by Charles Kamau said they had paid Sh38,950 for the titles to the plots. “How come we are being asked to pay for the land when the majority had paid the title deed fee to our former officials many years ago?"   There was tension after the villagers stormed a meeting where only a few members were invited. Esther Mwihaki called for state intervention for members to get justice. The plots at Block Two were demarcated in 2006. The members have been pleading with the management to issue titles.  The liquidators were appointed in February 2017 and are seeking about Sh300 million.  In December 2020 Murang’a MP Sabina Chege petitioned Parliament to help get the government to probe the society's affairs.      Tale of 2 Somalias: Inside Somalia-Somaliland relations with Kenya & members of the global community  Fish theft threatens thriving cage fish farming business in Busia  Improving Farming: Government invests in irrigation water projects in Embu County By Jane Mugambi | 9 hours ago By Jane Mugambi | 10 hours ago By Fidelis Kabunyi | 11 hours ago By Fidelis Kabunyi | 14 hours ago