Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka has revisited the events that led to the formation of the coalition government in 2007/2008.  Speaking after meeting Mount Kenya Foundation leaders at Safari Park Hotel, Nairobi, Kalonzo said it was he who fronted President Uhuru's name to former President Mwai Kibaki for the deputy prime minister post in the shared government.  “It was me who convinced Kibaki to appoint Uhuru as a deputy prime minister/Minister for Trade,” the Wiper boss said during a luncheon for OKA principals.  He said the president owes him, adding, “but we aren’t here to talk about political debts.”  Mt Kenya pick: OKA, Raila to wait a little longer  Why Prezzo UK was bound to be Pandora Papers ‘whistleblower’   Pandora Papers  Pandora files: Raila, Uhuru embrace leaks, fire warning OKA leaders Kalonzo (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress), Gideon Moi (Kanu) and Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya) met the Mt Kenya Foundation leadership at Nairobi’s Safari Park Hotel to present in what is widely believed to be a deal-making parley ahead of the 2022 election. They were also joined by United Democratic Party leader and former Lugari MP Cyrus Jirongo.  Kalonzo urged the Mt Kenya region to exercise voter integrity in 2022, reminding them of the role he played in the 2007 General Election.   “In 2007, people who represent the mountain came to my house to plead with me and we reasoned together. We stood in the gap. Had we not done it, this country would probably be worse than Somalia,” said Kalonzo.  One Kenya Alliance leaders Gideon Moi (left) and Kalonzo Musyoka (right) during a luncheon at Safari Park Hotel, Nairobi. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  Kanu leader Gideon Moi said policies need implementation otherwise they just remain ideas.  “It does not matter which economic model we present to you if we are not in power to carry them out,”  he said.  OKA says it believes in an all-inclusive nation where no one is left behind.  The meeting was last week postponed.  The OKA principals have collectively pledged loyalty to President Uhuru Kenyatta, but each bears ambitions to succeed him.  According to insiders, the group will eventually meet President Kenyatta to present its preferred presidential candidate.  “MKF planned the meeting. They will give us the opportunity to share our visions and aspirations,” Mudavadi said in an earlier interview.  Mt Kenya Foundation is an exclusive club of billionaires who have in the past influenced elections.  President Uhuru Kenyatta is being seen as managing his succession after he met OKA principals, who, except Wetang'ula, have declared interest in the presidency.  Equity Bank former chairman Peter Munga, former Kenya Revenue Authority Commissioner General Michael Waweru and former Kenya Airports Authority chairman George Muhoho are some of the big shots in the group.      "Mimi niko ready, any moment," Ruto says he is ready to reconcile with Uhuru without any conditions  Exploring the preparedness and the key timeliness of the IEBC to conduct the 2022 General Elections  Muungano wa NASA umevunjika rasmi baada ya ANC, Wiper na Ford Kenya kutangaza kujiondoa kwao By Moses Nyamori | 1 hour ago By Standard Team | 3 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 13 hours ago By Joackim Bwana | 15 hours ago