The 29-year-old suspect was arrested after he attacked another woman in Ruiru last night. [iStockphoto]  Detectives in Ruiru have arrested a suspected serial killer who has been on the run for two years.  In a confession to the police, the suspect claimed to have killed at least three women and attended their burials.  The 29-year-old suspect was arrested this morning after he attacked another woman last night at Watalaam slum in Ruiru.  He is said to have confessed to committing the murders on various dates since last year.  Athlete hacked to death in Kirinyaga, boyfriend arrested  Woman suspected of killing 7-year-old boy detained  Criminals now using visitors' books to swindle parents, teachers  How suspected child killer Masten Wanjala easily left police station The suspect told detectives he first defiled his victims before strangling them.  Ruiru DCIO Justus Ombati said the suspect mostly attacks light-skinned women within the slums in the wee hours of the morning when he would gag and drag them to secluded areas.  According to Ruiru OCPD Cecilia Kemboi, police launched a manhunt for suspects after the bodies of three victims were retrieved in Ruiru. All victims were killed in a similar manner.  The suspect who lives with his parents was spotted within the slum by the public who alerted the police.  The Ruiru police boss said the suspect has been on their radar for two years.  It wasn't until this morning that police got intelligence on the suspect’s hideout in Watalaam slums.  “We got a tipoff from the public on the suspect's hideout and arrested him but believe there are more accomplices,” Ruiru DCIO Ombati said.  “The suspect has confessed to being involved in various assaults, rape, and killings from two years ago.”   Police later arrested four other people. Two of them are believed to be the suspect's accomplices, while the others were found in possession of a phone stolen from one of the victims.  According to police, the suspected serial killer has been posing as an electrician walking around with a bag that contains a hammer and other equipment believed to be part of his weapons.  The suspect told the police he has strong urges to spill human blood and that evil spirits push him to kill more often.  “In his confession, the suspect admitted that he visits scenes of crime when the police come to collect the bodies,” said an officer privy to the investigation.  The latest victim that the suspect attacked on Wednesday night is recuperating at the Kenyatta National Hospital.  During the arrest, the main suspect was found in possession of women's underwear.  The five suspects will be arraigned in court tomorrow (Friday).  fkabunyi@standardmedia.co.ke      Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death  Nyeri Murder Probe: Nyeri tycoon accused of killing his own son over domestic quarrel between them By Lydiah Nyawira | 2 hours ago By Lydia Nyawira | 10 hours ago By Phares Mutembei | 1 day ago By Jane Mugambi | 1 day ago