Members of Parliament from Kakamega County have petitioned the government to ensure locals are compensated before gold exploration companies are allowed to operate in the area.  MPs Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani), Ayub Savula (Lugari) and Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo) said families living along the Liranda Corridor that stretches from Shinyalu to Ikolomani sub-counties and part of Vihiga County ought to be compensated because gold mining companies have been exploring the mineral on their ancestral land.  Over 50,000 people are living along the corridor, according to the national government statistics.  Savula said gold-mining activities must be regulated to bar some gold exploration firms from engaging in illegal mining activities at the expense of the locals.  “The government must protect the interests of our people whose farms have rich minerals deposits.  Myopia prevalent among schoolboys in Kakamega  Man’s handiwork that has driven tempo of Sunday church services  ‘Dead’ boy returns home after one year on streets  Cock and bull story? Ayub Alulu is Kakamega's king of cockfights   "Gold exploration firms must compensate the people before they are allowed to carry on with their activities,” Savula said.  Shinali said he has already taken a motion to Parliament seeking to have locals compensated.  “Elsewhere, residents of places where mineral deposits are discovered are compensated before explorations works begin.  "That is what we are pushing for as leaders from this county. We shall not allow firms to exploit our people,” said Shinali.  The trio promised to mobilise other lawmakers to back the motion tabled by Shinali.  They were speaking during a fundraiser in aid of Lirhembe Friends Church in Ikolomani on Sunday.  Wangwe, who is the National Assembly Chief Whip, urged the residents not to be swayed to back Deputy President William Ruto’s presidential quest.  He said Ruto cannot be trusted, given his record as a leader.  “As a region, we must be careful not to be deceived by mere rhetoric and empty promises,” said Wangwe, a former ally of the DP.  Both Shinali and Wangwe were elected on Jubilee ticket but ditched it when the party split into Tangatanga and Kieleweke factions.   FKF Premier League results: Posta Rangers 1-3 Kakamega Homeboyz, Ulinzi Stars 1-0 Nzoia Sugar  Kakamega twins to take different career paths after registering different grades in the KCSE 2020  Pacha wa Kakamega wafaulu katika mtihani wa KCSE 2020, walitambulika sana baada ya kupatana By Nathan Ochunge | 6 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 6 hours ago By John Shilitsa | 11 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 1 day ago