The couple had lived in the apartments located in Afraha, Nakuru Town East for two weeks only. [File, Standard]  A 40-year-old man is recuperating in hospital after jumping off the balcony of an apartment in Nakuru shortly after he allegedly killed his wife on Wednesday morning.  Paul Ochieng allegedly stabbed Mary Njeri Kamande, 20, in the chest before jumping from the fourth floor of their apartment located at Afraha in Nakuru Town East.  “The couple had been engaged in a domestic dispute, which ended in Ochieng stabbing Njeri in the right part of her chest. The victim died on the spot,” Nakuru Town East Sub-County Police Commander Elena Kabukuru told The Standard.   According to Kabukuru, the suspect attempted suicide by jumping off his fourth floor balcony.  Five-year-old twins witness mother’s gruesome murder by father  Woman pleads guilty to stabbing her boyfriend to death, seeks lesser charge of manslaughter  Mass voter registration to kick off in Nakuru  Raila, Ruto factor to shape Nakuru governorship race “He survived the suicide attempt, but suffered broken limbs,” said the area police boss.  Police took Ochieng to Nakuru Level 5 Hospital, where he is undergoing treatment.  “Once he is discharged, we will charge him with murder,” said Kabukuru.  A kitchen knife suspected to have been used in Njeri’s fatal attack was recovered by police.  Kabukuru said the couple had lived in the Afraha apartment for two weeks only.  “The pair had twin children aged five. Their neighbours have since taken in the minors as we trace Njeri’s relatives,” said the area police chief.  Njeri’s body was taken to Nakuru Municipal Mortuary awaiting postmortem.   Serikali ya kaunti ya Nakuru yatoa pendekezo la kuzuia uvuvi katika ziwa Naivasha  KENHA urges Kenyans plying the Nairobi-Nakuru highway to use alternative routes  Tussle over the ownership of land in Ngongogeri, Nakuru threatening peace amongst disputing parties By Peterson Githaiga | 1 hour ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 3 hours ago By James Munyeki | 6 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 7 hours ago