Lamu Senator Anwar Loitiptip. [Courtesy]  Lamu Senator Anwar Loitiptip will spend the night in custody over an alleged shooting incident at Kanu Grounds in Nanyuki, Laikipia County.  Senator Anwar, who turned himself in to Nanyuki Police Station detectives at around 5pm over the Saturday night gun drama that left a woman nursing gunshot wounds, was questioned until 8:30pm.  According to Laikipia East Sub-county police commander John Tarus, investigations remain ongoing to determine circumstances under which the 32-year-old woman, Joy Makena, was shot.     Havi wants British Army murder suspected surrendered to Kenya  Lamu Senator in gun drama, woman hurt  Did UK soldier take part in Kenyan woman murder?  Duma Team ready for KCB Nanyuki Autocross race "We are conducting investigations and will be collecting statements of accounts from both parties before we make a decision on what charges to bring against the senator," said Tarus.  Anwar is expected in court on Monday, October 25, 2021.   According to the police, the shooting occurred at 2am on Saturday night.  “Joy Makena was shot on her right leg, above the ankle, after a quarrel ensued between her and the Lamu Senator,” read the police report in part.  Lamu Senator Anwar Loitiptip (right). [Courtesy]  Speaking to The Standard on phone, the legislator claimed he was attacked and offered to give a comprehensive statement.  "I am at a hospital for some checkup and will speak on the matter later, but the truth is that I was attacked by a knife-wielding gang last night," said Anwar.  Anwar later elaborated to Laikipia County Criminal Investigations Officer (CCIO) Onesmus Towett that he acted in self-defence.  "We established that the senator had already travelled to Nairobi but we called him and he told us that he had been confronted by two women and a man and that he shot in self-defence," said Towett.   CS Fred Matiang'i says the Government is committed to addressing the insecurity in Laikipia County  Treni ya mafuta iliyokuwa ikisafiri kutoka Nanyuki kuelekea Nairobi yashika moto huko Sagana  Laikipia county Gov't enters into a lease agreement to enable it scale-up infrastructure development By Winfrey Owino | 1 hour ago By Winfrey Owino | 3 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 3 hours ago By Kamau Ngotho | 7 hours ago