The first of October 2021 marks the 72nd anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China (PRC). For the past 72 years, China has made great achievements in the pursuit of the Chinese Dream under the strong leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC), which celebrated its centenary on July 1st this year.  As the largest developing country, China has met 10 years in advance the poverty eradication target set out in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, reducing the world’s poverty-stricken population by over 70 per cent.  At present, China has realized the goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and has started a new journey toward fully building a modern socialist country. China has always worked to safeguard world peace, contribute to global development, and preserve international order. To strengthen solidarity and cooperation with African countries is always China’s resolute strategic choice. China and Kenya share a profound tradition of friendship.  Our cooperation and mutual assistance in the fight against COVID-19 represents a prime example of solidarity in the face of a disease. China stands ready to work with Kenya to cement communication and coordination, to promote the high-quality development of the Belt and Road and make a success of the next meeting of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC), so as to better benefit the two peoples.    Couple deported from China, charged with falsifying documents  Bad for business: WB China rigging scandal rattles investors  How China has silenced roar of Kenyan factories  New maritime law could inflame China, Asian nations South China Sea tiff  July 9, 2021 marks 1,500 days of safe operation of Mombasa-Nairobi Standard Gauge Railway, a flagship China-Kenya BRI Cooperation project. Latest data shows that revenues generated from SGR made 27.69 per cent year-on-year rise to Sh9.08 billion in seven months to July this year.   Nairobi Expressway Project, the first PPP project in Kenya, financed and constructed by China Road and Bridge Corporation, is one of the construction sites which remain operation during the pandemic, by which the project made contribution to boosting economic activities and keeping jobs for local workers.   AVIC INTERNATIONAL has undertaken Technical and Vocational Education Training (TVET) Project since 2010, aiming at equipping technical training institutions across Kenya and benefiting 150,000 local students eventually.   Chinese Martial Arts (Kungfu) are gaining popularity in Kenya. For some, practicing Martial Arts has made a positive difference in lives and the community. Many youth across the country have taken up martial arts as a form of exercise and self-expression.   Mzozo wa Chimbo: Wenyeji wa Malava walaumu mwanakandarasi amabye ni raia wa Uchina  How China firm staged SGR ticketing scandal | Press Review  LOCKED OUT: Children with special needs affected by measures to curb COVID-19 By Reuters | 40 minutes ago By Standard Reporter | 4 hours ago By Standard Reporter | 1 day ago By Reuters | 1 day ago