High Court Judge Roseline Korir has raised concerns over high number of murder cases in Bomet County.  Justice Korir said over 100 cases of murder cases are currently being handled at various stages, noting the situation was worrying.  Speaking on the sideline of a training on adoption of plea-bargaining which brought together lawyers, prosecutors and magistrates, Justice Korir said there was need for urgent intervention to curb murder incidents in the society.  Justice Korir said changes in law had seen the introduction of plea-bargain to help in expediting conclusion of cases.  Rift Valley Regional Prosecution Coordinator Aloice Kemo, who oversaw the training, said through plea-bargain, the accused can reach an agreement with the prosecution by owning up to the mistake.  Bunge la Mwananchi 'president' charged with robbery  Couple among four people convicted of murder by Embu court  No evidence linking man to death of lover who ‘drowned while taking selfie’, court told  Woman in child's killing 'has a case to answer' He said through the agreement, the accused person is able to get a lenient sentence in return.  Mr Kemo said the process will see a reduction of time used in handling a case because witnesses will not be called.  He challenged the lawyers in the county to quickly embrace plea-bargain option to help in reducing case backlog.  Bomet Branch Law Society Chair Cadet Kibet said the introduction of plea-bargain was timely.  Kibet called for fast-tracking of trainings and roll out of the plea-bargain.  “It is a good idea and following the training, we hope to go out and make other court users aware about it so that they can embrace it,” he said.  Kibet said as a branch they will organise grassroots meetings to sensitive the public on the importance of embracing plea-bargain.    kronoh@standardmedia.co.ke      Judges Hiring Row: High Court bars any investigations or prosecution of the rejected six judges  Uhuru vs Judiciary: High Court deals the president another blow by quashing Uhuru's Executive order  Uhuru challenges High Court's judgment that nullified the BBI, claiming his rights were violated By Daniel Chege | 1 day ago By Daniel Chege | 1 day ago By Lynn Kolongei | 1 day ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 day ago