ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi Speaking at Buruburu Redeemed Gospel Church, Nairobi. [Courtesy]  Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi has maintained that the next president will be determined by the masses through the ballot box, and not endorsements from individuals.  Noting that the winner of the 2022 presidential election would be elected by the voters, Mudavadi said no level of endorsement by interested individuals or functions would sway the will of the people.  Speaking at Buruburu Redeemed Gospel Church in Nairobi, the ANC leader and 2022 presidential hopeful downplayed the endorsement of individuals by interested parties, saying such validations would only make sense if they are people-backed.  “No level of endorsement from interested players will make one president. The only endorsement that will count and the one I want is that of the voters. I seek the endorsement of all Kenyans to be able to serve them as their next commander-in-chief,” he said.  Ex-South Korea midfielder Park Ji-sung urges Man Utd fans to stop chant about dog meat  Man City complain to Liverpool over alleged fan spitting incident   Kindiki firm told to pay Sh2.2m for dismissing pregnant lawyer  Woman, better give birth in your 20s His sentiments come in the wake of heightened activities, especially from President Uhuru Kenyatta's backyard, where ODM's Raila Odinga's scaling of the mountain saw him meet Mt Kenya Foundation group (influential billionaires) at a luncheon in Nairobi to seek their support.  They are reported to have shown willingness to endorse his bid for the State House race.  The same group is scheduled to meet with One Kenya Alliance (OKA) leaders, who include Mudavadi, Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, and Ford-Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula this Thursday. They are expected to outline their agenda and ideologies for the mountain.  At the same time, the ANC leader called on youth to come out in large numbers and register as voters when the electoral agency rolls out the mass registration exercise, which starts today.  Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi. [Courtesy]  The exercise by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) will last 45 days.  Mudavadi said the only way to revive the economy was to elect leaders of moral standing in society and people who cared about the welfare of the people.  “The youth should grab the opportunity now and register in big numbers, and be part of the democratic process of electing their leaders. I present myself for that challenge of reviving our economy and I want to call on Kenyans of goodwill to walk with me in this journey of reviving and building our nation,” he said.  Mudavadi called on the Church to encourage the unregistered and eligible Kenyans to register and elect leaders.  He equally called for peace and political tolerance as the country enters the electioneering period, saying every person seeking votes should be able to do so without intimidation.  He said no person should incite voters into violence and "locking" of regions. “As politicians, we should play politics of tolerance while preaching peace," he said.  Every Kenyan should be able to walk, work and seek votes in any part of the country,” he said.  He called on the Church to speak the truth and lead Kenyans in making the right choice in next year’s General Election. Mudavadi asked the Church to remain non-partisan in political engagements in the country.      Musalia Mudavadi is expected in Meru county in his heightened political activities to woo the region  Mudavadi asisitiza umuhimu wa wakenya kuwachunguza wanasiasa kabla ya kuwapigia kura mwaka ujao  Muungano wa NASA umevunjika rasmi baada ya ANC, Wiper na Ford Kenya kutangaza kujiondoa kwao By Patrick Beja | 7 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 12 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 20 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 20 hours ago