Judge's Gavel And Handcuffs [Courtesy]  A 19-year-old has been sentenced to seven years imprisonment for killing his step-brother.  Paul Ochieng, a secondary school dropout, heaved a sigh of relief after his charge was reduced to manslaughter following a plea bargain.  Upon release, Ochieng is expected to be put on three-year probation as part of his rehabilitation.  Justice Roselyne Aburili said she considered the accused’s young age and the circumstances surrounding the offence.  10-year boy fighting for life, two women arrested after an attempted exorcism  Siaya family calls for justice after father is killed in an attack during dinner  Siaya family calls for justice after their kin is killed in an attack  Man kills neighbour for mocking his intimacy skills “The accused is a first offender and a young man. His main mistake, giving rise to this case is that he had an illicit love affair with his late brother’s wife and hence when the brother found out, a fight ensued,” said Aburili.  During proceedings, the High Court sitting in Siaya heard that Ochieng stabbed his brother Boaz Oduor during a fight.  Oduor accused Ochieng of having an affair with his wife.  According to the prosecution, Oduor succumbed to his injuries before he could be taken to hospital.  The incident took place on May 15, 2021 in Nyamila sub-location North Alego Location.  A post-mortem report presented in court established that the deceased died due to cardiac arrest caused by trauma.  John Oyare, a probation officer, told the court that the accused was suspected of having an affair with the wife of his brother.   Gem of Siaya: Colonial chief who could flog parents for not taking their children to school  Focus on Cornel Rasanga, the first elect Governor of Siaya County | Person of Interest  Siaya county assembly becomes the first to unanimously pass BBI constitutional amendment bill 2020 By  James Wanzala  | 10 hours ago By Caleb Kingwara | 13 hours ago By Nanjinia Wamuswa | 1 day ago By Caleb Kingwara | 1 day ago