Deputy President William Ruto is today and tomorrow expected to pitch tent in Kisii to woo residents to back his 2022 presidential bid.  The DP, who will be returning to ODM party leader Raila Odinga’s Nyanza backyard for the second time in as many weeks, is seeking to make inroads in the region.  Ruto will be touring South Mugirango constituency tomorrow morning to deliver two school buses for Nyakembene and Nyagichincho secondary schools.  South Mugirango MP Silvanus Osoro, a close Ruto ally, said DP’s tour was focused on development. It comes at a time Ruto is championing his “bottom-up” economic model, which has been criticised by his opponents.  “This will be an official tour to continue with our work on delivering on our campaign promises. This is not a political function; those thinking otherwise should hold their horses,” said Osoro.  Raila, Ruto factor to shape Nakuru governorship race  Raila Odinga takes baby steps up Mt Kenya, but will he carry the rest of his sizeable voting bloc?  DP Ruto: BBI was the most fraudulent undertaking by a regime in Kenya’s history   Ruto-Raila contest: Is their switch of style by political design or fate? The DP is expected to attend a church service at Deliverance Church of Kenya in Kisii town this morning.  He is also expected to visit Teresa Bitutu, the widow of former Bonchari MP Oroo Oyioka, who contested the constituency’s by-election on the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party ticket but lost to ODM’s Pavel Oimeke. Teresa emerged third after Oimeke and Zebedeo Opore of Jubilee Party.  In the past three years, Ruto has been making inroads in the counties of Kisii, Migori and Nyamira.  Last Saturday, Ruto was in Migori County where he addressed roadside rallies, saying: “We have agreed to broaden and deepen the United Democratic Alliance party’s networks in Nyanza region. I have come here because I know that we have hustlers from this region.”  In Kisii, he has been receiving the support of Osoro and Alfa Miruka (Bomachoge Chache MP) as well as Deputy Governor Joash Maangi. In Nyamira, he has the support of MPs Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango), Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba) and Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango).  Maangi, who was elected on an ODM ticket alongside Governor James Ongwae, has been criticised for supporting Ruto.  Last Friday morning, police mounted roadblocks on the road to his official residence in Kisii town after word went round that Maangi had planned a series of meetings at his home ahead of Ruto’s visit.  It later emerged that Maangi was at his rural home. From his social media pages, Maangi had spent time making impromptu meetings in Bomachoge constituency.  In Migori County, Ruto has been banking on the support of the two MPs from the Kuria community - Mathias Robi and Marwa Kitayama - and Governor Okoth Obado.  The Deputy President has been crafting a new team of politicians from the region some of whom could be making their debut in the region’s politics.   "Mimi niko ready, any moment," Ruto says he is ready to reconcile with Uhuru without any conditions  Pulpit Politics: ODM leader Raila Odinga welcomes move to ban politicians speaking in church  Raila Odinga is set to begin a 2-day in Western Kenya, he is to have consultative meetings By Steve Mkawale | 2 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 7 hours ago By Special Correspondent | 9 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 10 hours ago