An investigator has detailed the movement of journalist Jacqueline Maribe’s vehicle the night a businesswoman was murdered in her apartment after arriving from South Sudan.  This was after investigations suggested that Maribe’s car might have been used by Joseph Irungu alias Jowie, who is the key suspect in the murder of Monica Kimani on the night she was found dead in her apartment at Lamuria Gardens Apartment in Kilimani.  Maribe and Jowie have both denied killing Monica.  Chief Inspector of Police Fredrick Michuki told the court that he received a request from the Directorate of Criminal Investigation to provide CCTV footage of Maribe’s car movement from September 19, 2018, when Monica was killed.    Jowie had gunshot wounds on night of murder, says doctor   Court orders murder suspect Jowie not to live or work out of hometown  Jowie shot self after Maribe kicked him out of her house, witness tells court  Court told of strange ‘come help me sleep’ text from Monica Kimani’s phone “We acted on the request and gave the original copy of the CCTV footage of the car registration number KCA 031E, which was registered in the name of Jacqueline Maribe,” said Mr Michuki.  Michuki played the CCTV videos in court, which showed that Maribe’s car was first captured moving from Ngong Road and Kilimani Road towards Yaya Centre at 8.09am.  He told the court that the car was captured again leaving Yaya Centre headed towards Ngong Road at 8.28am. The next time the car was spotted again was along Lang’ata Road at 3.24pm, and then on Magadi Road at 3.26pm.  At 3.44pm the car was captured near Brookhouse School before it was spotted again at 4.27pm in Kilimani.  The next time the vehicle was sighted again was at 11.56pm along Mbagathi Road headed to the T-Mall junction.  At midnight, the car was seen moving towards Mbagathi Hospital then to State House Road near the University of Nairobi at 12.23am.  At 3.56am, the vehicle was captured on Chiromo Road headed towards Westlands roundabout and then to Museum Hill.  The vehicle then joined Uhuru Highway and was captured near Utalii House towards Kenyatta Avenue at 3.57am, and then at Parliament Building heading towards the Haile Selassie roundabout.  From there, the vehicle was spotted moving to Bunyala Road at 4am then on to Lang’ata Road from Nyayo Stadium towards Madaraka Estate.  It was captured again on Lang’ata Road near the Bomas of Kenya at 7.15am, and then moving from Galleria Mall towards the Lang’ata cemetery. The hearing continues.   "Uhuru wa Jowie" Jaji asema haoni sababu ya kumzuilia Jowie anaye kabiliwa na kesi ya Mauaji  Joseph Irungu almarufu 'Jowie' aachiliwa kwa dhamana ya shilingi milioni mbili na jaji Wakiaga  Jowi ataka mahakama imsameha katika kesi ya mauaji ya Monica Kimani By Judah Ben-Hur | 2 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 2 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 8 hours ago By Edwin Nyarangi and Benard Lusigi | 8 hours ago