Nairobi County Assembly Majority Leader Abdi Guyo (in floral shirt) at Sagret Hotel in Nairobi. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard]  Nairobi County Assembly Majority Leader Abdi Hassan alias Guyo has declared interest in Embakasi Central parliamentary seat.  Guyo, who is Matopeni ward MCA is seeking to unseat MP Benjamin Gathiru popularly known as Major Donk.  Speaking during a church service at African Revival Centre on Sunday, Guyo said he will vie on “handshake party" ticket.  “I will be vying for the Embakasi Central seat come 2022 and will contest through the handshake party to be unveiled by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga," said Guyo.  I was misquoted on Nyanza presidency remarks – Junet Mohamed  The tough battle ahead for Ruto and Raila as 2022 contest beckons  Here comes the incredible risk of mistaking crowds for votes  Ruto promises economic revolution come next year “I am sure that Nairobi governor, senator, Women Representative and the 17 MPs will all come from the handshake party in 2022," he added.  The Assembly leader vowed to beat Gathiru who is associated with UDA.  The MCA said his resolve to seek a higher seat was informed by the desire to improve livelihoods and ensure a better quality of life for constituents.   “We are going to work with everyone in order to improve the economic situation of our constituency and ultimately the country. Plans are afoot to empower more than 200 youth self-help groups and over 300 women groups from Embakasi," he said.  Guyo urged opponents to exercise political tolerance to avert chaos.  “For those of us vying for the seat, I urge that we exercise political tolerance and accept the outcome of the polls no matter who wins," he said.  The announcement comes months after President Kenyatta endorsed the Majority Leader for the parliamentary seat.    While launching water and health projects in Emabaksi Central in February, Uhuru appeared to endorse Guyo saying, “When we say Nairobi needs to be added more constituencies, it is because here at Matopeni ward for instance the population is higher than those who are in a single constituency. Is there any problem if Guyo becomes your leader at the constituency level and brings NG-CDF?” he posed.  Abdi Guyo is from the Sakuye community in Isiolo county.  He has served for two terms as Jubilee Party MCA and was a councilor from 2007 to 2012.  He was the Minority Leader in the county assembly from 2013-2017 under the regime of former Governor Evans Kidero.  The 40-year-old politician is said to have the ear of the President and is entrusted with pushing the Jubilee agenda in the assembly.   Unpacking 2022 politics and why some candidates are forced back to the drawing board | NEWSHOUR  The Grand Report: Has the handshake met its objective three years since Uhuru, Raila shook hands?  Political temperatures heightened as 2022 politics heat up | Week in Review By Paul Ogemba | 1 hour ago By Kamore Maina | 4 hours ago By Paul Ogemba | 1 day ago By Hudson Gumbihi | 1 day ago