Migori Governor Okoth Obado. [Caleb Kingwara, Standard]  Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leaders have told Migori Governor Okoth Obado to stop confusing the region with new parties and dividing Nyanza votes.  The leaders also accused Obado of not appreciating what ODM and its leader Raila Odinga have done for him.  Party Chairman John Mbadi said it was unfortunate that when Raila was almost getting his people to 'Canaan', another person was coming up with a different party "to confuse our people".  He likened the governor to the Israelites who created other gods when Moses went up the mountain to receive the Ten Commandments.  Ruto says handshake derailed Jubilee agenda  Raila Odinga's third economic revolution should create a strong middle class  North Eastern leaders back Raila's 2022 bid  Blow to ODM's Shahbal as key ally joins Ruto party “The Israelites stayed in bondage for years and walked for 40 years in the wilderness and when Moses went to the mountain to get the Ten Commandments, the people created other gods. That is what I see happening now,” Mbadi said.  He was speaking at a fundraiser in Migori County yesterday.  ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna said he was saddened that the people whom the former prime minister had lifted politically were the same ones turning against him.  ODM Chairman John Mbadi during a past function. [Caleb Kingwara, Standard]  He said Obado was one of those Raila had helped, but is now opening doors to the party’s "greatest enemy".  “In Western, we say that when a child folds a fist and hits the breast that fed him, that curse has no cure. When I meet with Obado, the way he talks can make you think that the things he does are not true. And then the next day you see him opening the window for our greatest enemy,” Sifuna said.  Nairobi ODM Branch Chairman George Aladwa last Thursday said Obado was being used to divide Nyanza votes.  “We respect Obado, let him finish his term and go home peacefully,” Aladwa said.  On September 25, in Awendo town, Obado declared that he would work with Deputy President William Ruto.  “As a party leader of the People’s Democratic Party, I am working towards maintaining peace and in that line I welcome Ruto,” he said.  Obado and former Awendo MP Jared Kopiyo hosted Ruto in the county as they held several fundraisers in Awendo and Uriri sub-counties.   "Mimi niko ready, any moment," Ruto says he is ready to reconcile with Uhuru without any conditions  Pulpit Politics: ODM leader Raila Odinga welcomes move to ban politicians speaking in church  Raila Odinga is set to begin a 2-day in Western Kenya, he is to have consultative meetings By Eric Abuga | 1 hour ago By Abdimalik Hajir | 8 hours ago By James Wanzala | 8 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 8 hours ago