Tyson Fury weathered the storm in the first four rounds of his trilogy fight with Deontay Wilder, before sending him tumbling to the ground in the 11th to retain his WBC heavyweight title at T-Mobile Arena Las Vegas.  Wilder was knocked down in the third round before sending Fury to the deck twice in the fourth. However, the Brit responded aggressively from the fifth, taking the fight to the penultimate round.  Here, the heavyweight champion knocked out a bloodied Wilder with a right-hand jab, finally putting a stop to another disastrous evening for the Bronze Bomber. Wilder was reportedly taken to hospital after the fight.  An elated Fury didn’t look surprised after the fight, insisting he is still the best fighter on the planet.  Tyson Fury beats Deontay Wilder to retain WBC heavyweight boxing title  Boxing: Fury and Wilder post career-heaviest weights ahead of title fight  Sanlam, Jurassic to clash in Wine Box Cup final at Manyatta Club  Tyson Fury beats Deontay Wilder to retain WBC heavyweight boxing title  Polo: Sanlam eyeing top prize in Wine Box Championships "It was a great fight tonight, it was worthy of any trilogy in the history of the sport. Deontay Wilder's a top fighter, he gave me a real run for my money. I always said I'm the best in the world and he's second-best," said Fury.  Here is the scorecard from the fight:  In another anticipated bout, Anthony Joshua has triggered a rematch clause against heavyweight rival Oleksandr Usyk.  The fight could take place in March, with Joshua’s promoter Eddie Hearn telling press the bout could take place next year.  "Joshua has got his head back in the game," "He is training now and today we officially triggered the rematch for the Oleksandr Usyk fight, which we will see early next spring. We're looking for him to become a three-time heavyweight world champion. I think realistically March is when you're likely to see the rematch," Hearn told DAZN.   By Ben Ahenda | 1 hour ago By Robert Abong'o | 1 hour ago By Standard Sports | 3 hours ago By Washington Onyango | 12 hours ago