The suspect, Paul Otieno, allegedly attempted to flee the scene of crime after killing his wife. [Courtesy]  A man accused of killing his wife and attempting suicide at their residential home in Stadium Flats within Nakuru County wants to be released on bail.  Paul Otieno appeared virtually yesterday morning for plea-taking before Justice Teresia Metheka, the High Court judge sitting in Nakuru.  Paul Otieno denied stabbing his wife Njeri Kamande on the night of October 5, before he attempted to jump from the fourth floor of their residence.  Prosecutor Rita Rotich applied for Otieno to be denied bail by the court.  Widows' killings linked to appetite for land, not witchcraft, say groups  Man who admitted to killing former wife not fit for trial  Nakuru police launch crackdown against notorious gang  Man kills father as lover slashes woman's throat in separate incidents She furnished the court with an application dated October 21, 2021, which stated that Otieno was a flight risk.  According to Ms Rotich, Otieno allegedly attempted to flee the scene of crime after killing his wife.  "After he stabbed his wife, he jumped over the house’s balcony and over the fence of his plot before he was apprehended by the public who knew him,” she said.  She said that the prosecution is adamant that Otieno will abscond court because he allegedly has no fixed aboard.  “The crime scene is his resident and the prosecution is unsure where he will live if released,” said Rotich.  She said that Otieno may interfere with witnesses, including her stepdaughter who is six years old and other witnesses who are his neighbours.  She informed the court that Otieno had no known place of employment.  However, in response, Otieno said that he was a clerk at Geothermal Development Company and his relatives live in Nakuru.  He said that he didn’t try to flee on the day of the incident but was attempting to call his neighbors for help.  “The deceased was my girlfriend and I am not the stepfather of the minor. I am willing to stay away from her and other neighbours if released,” he told the court.  Matheka ordered a pre-bail report to be filed in court on the situation on the ground before the court gives its verdict.  She directed that Otieno be detained at Nakuru GK Prisons pending the report.  The case will be mentioned on November 3.   Tussle over the ownership of land in Ngongogeri, Nakuru threatening peace amongst disputing parties  Isiolo Killings: 5 people killed and scores injured in a night attack in Madowale village, Isiolo  A total of 24 unclaimed bodies to be buried in Nakuru upon expiry of a 21-day-period By Daniel Chege | 1 hour ago By Edward Kosut | 1 day ago By Daniel Chege | 1 day ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 2 days ago