Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi says he will back a candidate duly nominated by ODM for the seat. [File, Standard]  Ugunja Member of Parliament Opiyo Wandayi has pulled out of the 2022 Siaya Gubernatorial race.  In a statement seen by The Standard on Thursday, the MP said he opted out of the race to concentrate on ODM leader Raila Odinga’s presidential campaigns.   “I will dedicate my time and energy to the task of ensuring Raila becomes the fifth President of Kenyan in 2022 and serve my constituents,” he said in the statement.  Wandayi added he made the decision after consulting the ODM party leadership and listening to his Ugunja constituents.  MPs direct Treasury to fire of civil servants above 60 years  Electorate demands quality work on Sh1.2b road in Siaya  Accounting officers to be charged with graft  Sh4.5bn maize import that never was “Following consultations with ODM leadership and the rank and file of the party and having listened keenly to the voices of my Ugunja constituents, I wish to make it known that I shall not be a candidate for the position of Governor of Siaya in 2022,” read the statement.  He also said he will back candidates that shall have been duly nominated by ODM for the gubernatorial position.  “As a disciplined and loyal member of the progressive movement, I will lend my support to candidates that shall have been duly nominated by ODM party.”  The legislator thanked those who had proposed and backed his gubernatorial candidature for having confidence in him.  He, however, said that Siaya had numerous candidates who can serve Siaya people as governor.  The Siaya County top seat has also attracted Senator James Orengo, Former Police spokesperson Charles Owino, Deputy Governor James Okumbe and former Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo.   Carry your own cross! Member of the parliamentary watchdog to governors on corruption  Public Accounts Committee-Chair, Opiyo Wandayi promises to fast track County revenue allocation  Ugunja MP, Opiyo Wandayi elected as PAC chair of the National Assembly By Jael Mboga | 1 hour ago By Joackim Bwana | 2 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 5 hours ago By Betty Njeru | 5 hours ago