Stephen Kariuki Muigai trekked 230km from Nakuru to Kirinyaga County to witness Mashujaa Day celebrations. [Kibata Kihu, Standard]  A man who trekked 230km from Nakuru to Kirinyaga County to witness Mashujaa Day celebrations almost missed the function as he was left stranded in a hotel.  Stephen Kariuki Muigai, 67, who walked for seven days from his home in Nakuru County, arrived in Kerugoya on Tuesday at 7pm and was looking forward to finally watching the celebrations in person.  “When I arrived at Kerugoya town, I was approached by three men who identified themselves as Kirinyaga County officials. They interrupted my journey to Mwea with a promise to take me to see the governor,” he said.  He agreed to accompany the men to see governor Anne Waiguru at her Kagio residence where he joined 50 other Mau Mau heroes.  Mashujaa Day: Only 3,000 guests allowed into the stadium for fete  Uhuru’s Sh25 billion stimulus package   Buses, restaurants and bars to profit from end of curfew  Governor Waiguru highlights universal healthcare programme and farmers projects   “We received a warm reception from the governor who gave each a package of pishori rice, a packet of coffee, tea and a loaf of bread,” Muigai said.  However, after the governor left, the heroes were handed over to her assistants.  “One of the governor's aides managed to book a hotel room for me within Kerugoya town with a promise that he would come to pick me up at 7am and take me to the stadium,” Muigai said.  However, come Mashujaa Day morning, nobody showed up and he was left stranded at the hotel with no communication from the county official who booked him in at the Motel. By 11am, the celebrations kicked off as dignitaries started arriving and he decided to find his way to the venue.  “I was missing the celebrations I came for and I could not let my efforts go to waste, so I had no choice but to board a matatu to Mwea and then use a boda boda to Wan’guru Stadium,” he said.      REGGAE IS BACK: The final BBI report unveiled in Kisii and received by President Uhuru and Raila  Government launches Huduma Namba Card as Kenya marks Mashujaa day today  Celebrating Mashujaa: The National Celebrations held in Kisii County By Amos Kareithi | 8 hours ago By Wainaina Ndung'u and Ndungu Gachane | 8 hours ago By Macharia Kamau | 8 hours ago By Wainaina Wambu | 8 hours ago