Demolitions at Mukuru Kwa Njenga slums, Nairobi on Sunday, October 10, 2021. [Dominic Kusinjiru Milimo, Standard]  Demolitions are ongoing at Mukuru Kwa Njenga slums in Nairobi to pave way for construction of the Nairobi Expressway.  The government asked those residing along the road reserves to vacate, with Nairobi Regional Commissioner, James Kianda, adding the expansion of Catherine Ndereba Road will connect the Nairobi Expressway with Industrial Area and also open up the slum for business.  “This road will act as an exit from the Expressway at a link road that is being constructed around City Cabanas junction. Businesses that are situated along the road, like Jua Kali are expected to pick up,” said Kianda.  The demolitions at Mukuru Kwa Njenga are meant to pave way for construction of the Nairobi Expressway. [Dominic Kusinjiru Milimo, Standard]  Vacate from road reserve, Mukuru Kwa Njenga residents told  How a good road network is a vital link to a better tomorrow  Nairobi Expressway: Haile Selassie-UoN Roundabout stretch to be opened on October 15  Nairobi Expressway: Ruaka to JKIA will take 30 minutes  “Plans were underway to start putting up the railway station, but we realised that it was not going to serve any function since it could not be accessed. The road will however enable residents access amenities like schools and hospitals,” Kianda told press.  Kianda also asked residents to cooperate with constructors, explaining some public utilities that had been targeted could not be realised.  "The Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS) and security officers will supervise the demolition of the informal structures that have been set up. We ask residents to cooperate with the contractors," he said.     KENHA urges Kenyans plying the Nairobi-Nakuru highway to use alternative routes  KENHA yaelezea sababu za ajali ya daraja la Kangemi lililoporomoka hapo jana  Siasa za BBI: Seneta James Orengo asema ana uhakika wa kura ya maamuzi itapigwa kuhusu ripoti ya BBI By Iman Masud | 2 hours ago By Wainaina Ndung'u | 10 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 1 day ago By Collins Kweyu | 1 day ago