President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday at State House, Nairobi bade farewell to Cuban Ambassador to Kenya Ernesto Gomez Diaz whose tour of duty has ended.  Speaking during the brief event, President Kenyatta commended Diaz for deepening relations between Kenya and Cuba, especially in the health sector.  “It was a great pleasure to have had you here. You have done a lot to strengthen ties between our countries. It is through your efforts that every Kenyan knows about Cuba because of the Cuban doctors,” Uhuru said.  He added: “We have done well in the health sector and we can do so in sports and other fields of human development."    Power play in Uhuru’s surprise Cabinet reshuffle  President Uhuru opens Kibra Level 3 Hospital  President Uhuru Kenyatta reshuffles cabinet  Kenyans to enjoy cheaper electricity after Uhuru directive The Head of State reassured the outgoing envoy of Kenya's continued partnership with Cuba on the global stage, especially in the campaign for the lifting of international sanctions against the island nation.  Diaz expressed gratitude to the Kenyan government for the support he received during his tenure and reassured Uhuru of Cuba's deep commitment to the expansion of bilateral ties between the two nations.  He said his country will continue to offer training to Kenyan doctors, pointing out that Cuban malaria experts had already arrived in Kenya.  He thanked the president for playing a crucial role in efforts aimed at lifting sanctions against Cuba.  Separately, also at State House, Nairobi, Uhuru held talks with former British Prime Minister Tony Blair who paid him a courtesy call.   "Mimi niko ready, any moment," Ruto says he is ready to reconcile with Uhuru without any conditions  HOUSE OF CARDS: Is the State secretly engineering plot to have a compromise candidate succeed Uhuru?  Rais Uhuru Kenyatta adai kuwa Kenya ipo tayari kwa mashindano ya WRC By DPPS | 5 hours ago By Amos Kareithi | 9 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 13 hours ago By Patrick Vidija | 19 hours ago