Medics attend to Police Reservists at Unison hospital in Rumuruti on October 6, 2021, after they were attacked by suspected bandits. [Kennedy Gachuhi,Standard]  Suspected armed bandits raided the Ol Moran area, shot and injured three National Police Reservists patrolling the village last night.  It is a second attack targeting the reservists in the area after last Friday's incident in which another NPR was shot.  The officer is undergoing treatment at Nyahururu County Hospital.    Bandits in Samburu shoot dead father and son in daring raid  Tea, coffee change fortunes for ex-militia  Where bandits’ bullets have left children with scars, crutches  One killed in fresh Laikipia attacks Laikipia County Commissioner Joseph Kanyiri told Standard Digital that the trio was patrolling the area on bicycles when the attack happened.  "We are in hot pursuit of the attackers. Our officers are on the ground, and we will catch up with them," Kanyiri said.  Area ward representative George Karuiru said the three suffered serious injuries. One was shot in the stomach, another in the leg, and the third had his arm shattered with bullets.  He said the reservists were admitted at Unison hospital in Rumuruti.  "They were heading back to the ranch after the market day at Tingamara when they were ambushed by over ten armed men. The attackers fled to a nearby bush after the attack," he said.  "Were it not for the good Samaritans, the trio could have succumbed to the injuries. The situation is getting worse despite the ongoing security operations."  In the last two months, suspected bandits killed nine people, among them two police officers.  jmunyeki@standardmedia.co.ke      NATEMBEYA: Operation to mop up illegal guns in Kerio Valley will be firm and painful  Kerio Valley students stage protests after Form 4 student was shot dead by suspected bandits  The irony that is the Samburu floods, bandits flushed out By Peterson Githaiga | 1 hour ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 3 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 7 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 7 hours ago