The suspect fled the scene, leaving behind the victim in a pool of blood. [Collins Kweyu, Standard]  Police in Nandi are pursuing a man alleged to have tortured his girlfriend, leaving her with injuries that killed her.  Aron Kiplagat is said to have accosted Florence Jepkoech after she was found with another man in their rental house on Saturday night in Kosoywa estate, near Nandi Hills town.  Witnesses said the two lived together but fought a lot. Kiplagat is alleged to have worked with a friend to accost Jepkoech.  Mercy Jeptoo, a friend to Jepkoech, said after completing his menial jobs in Nandi Hills town, Kiplagat visited Jepkoech at her place of work, carrying basic effects, and told her he would be travelling.  Elders conduct cleansing ceremony in Agnes Tirop's house  Suspect in athlete Agnes Tirop's killing detained for 20 days  Villager's shock as man’s mutilated body found dumped in river  Four grannies lynched over witchcraft claims "...at around 11pm, Jepkoech left town in the company of her male friend," said Jeptoo.  No weapon was recovered from the scene. [Courtesy]  Two hours later Josephat Gichamo, the landlord, raised the alarm over commotions emanating from Jepkoech's room.   "Kiplagat and other unknown men fled from the scene, leaving behind the victim who was lying in a pool of blood, fighting for her life. Good Samaritans took her to the hospital," said Gichamo.  Jepkoech, 35, died at Nandi Hills Sub-County Hospital on Sunday.  Nandi East Police Commander Francis Omulo said no weapon was recovered from the scene, but the suspect could have used a knife and some blunt objects.   "The male friend who was accosted in the act fled," he said.   Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death  Nyeri Murder Probe: Nyeri tycoon accused of killing his own son over domestic quarrel between them By Stephen Rutto | 13 hours ago By Edward Kosut | 17 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 18 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 1 day ago