Five people, including a prominent Naivasha businessman, died over the weekend in two different accidents.  Scores of passengers were also injured and admitted to various hospitals in the two incidents in Mai Mahiu and Naivasha towns.  In the first incident, the trader John Richard Githere died on the spot after he rammed into the rear of a truck near Mai Mahiu town.  Githere, a proprietor of Tamasha bar in Nairobi, was on his way to Naivasha from Nairobi when the accident occurred.  A witness, James Kimani, said the driver of the ill-fated car was speeding when he hit the truck ferrying water to Western Kenya.  Police: Man ferrying bhang fled crash scene  I have climbed the mountain before, Raila to critics  21-year-old man kills two women in hit-and-run accident  Naivasha residents want footbridges along Nairobi-Nakuru highway to curb road accidents “The Range Rover was extensively damaged on impact. The driver died on the spot,” he said.  In the second accident, four people died, and scores were injured following an accident involving a personal car and a Nissan matatu.  The personal car was overtaking other vehicles near Delamere fly-over when it rammed head-on into an oncoming Nissan.  The driver of the car and one passenger from the Nissan died on the spot. Two others succumbed to their injuries at the hospital.  Jared Matheri, a witness, blamed the driver of the personal car for the midday accident.  “The driver of the personal car was overtaking a bus near the fly-over when he rammed into the incoming matatu,” he said.  Naivasha OCPD Samuel Waweru confirmed the two accidents, adding that inquest files had been opened as part of their investigations.  “Speeding was to blame in the Naivasha and Mai Mahiu accidents, and lives were lost,” said the police boss.   Serikali ya kaunti ya Nakuru yatoa pendekezo la kuzuia uvuvi katika ziwa Naivasha  Uvuvi Haramu Naivasha: Wavuvi haramu wanatumia vifaa vibovu, baadhi ni neti zilizopigwa marufuku  Mwanamme ajaribu kujitoa uhai Naivasha, alikata koo kwa kigae cha chupa By Julius Chepkwony | 40 minutes ago By Daniel Chege | 6 hours ago By Gilbert Kimutai | 6 hours ago By Gilbert Kimutai | 9 hours ago