Taita Taveta  County Water executive Esther Mwanyumba. [Courtesy: TTCG]  Taita Taveta MCAs have summoned Water executive Esther Mwanyumba to explain how the Sh 859 million grant for water and sanitation was spent.  The money is part of the Sh2.5 billion from the World Bank for the implementation of water and sanitation projects in the county.  Taita-Taveta Water and Sewerage Company (Tavevo) Limited, a water firm owned by the county government, is the implementing agency of the WB-funded projects.  Temporary Speaker Paul Waweru directed the water committee chaired by Ngolia ward rep Jones Mghanga to summon the CEC and Tavevo officials to appear before the House on Tuesday next week to shed light on the grave matter.  Pharmacists require own regulatory council  Asthma in children and what to look out for  Georgie, Bob Marley’s character in ‘No woman No cry’ passes on  Two firms ordered to open joint account in Sh460m land battle  The summons came after nominated MCA Chris Mwambingu sought a statement on the status of the multi-million shilling European Union-funded Nyangoro Water project in Maktau location, Mwatate sub-County that stalled.  The EU has pumped in Sh 88.6 million while the county administration is supposed to contribute 13 percent of the total cost of the project that targets to benefit 17,000-odd residents.  Mwambingu said the project was a mitigation plan to end the perennial water shortage at Godoma, Kwa Mnengwa, Mwashuma, Mwashoti, Mwambota, Maktau shopping centre, Msorongo and other neighbouring areas.  The ODM legislator doubted the tendering process and demanded that the CEC provide a list of all applicants who applied for the tender and the winning bidder, distribution plan for the project and project plan work plans and timelines.  Mwambingu told the speaker that the Water executive must bring vital documents such as bank statements, 11 bidding firms and evaluation reports on the donor-funded projects.  This came after a tender awarded to a contractor to provide goods and services was cancelled after it emerged that it was not awarded in a transparent manner.   Kenya set to float another Eurobond to plug the budget hole left by poor revenue collection  Wakazi Kajiado wahimizwa kula matunda, Ukataji miti Taita Taveta, Yuko wapi Nkatha? | MBIU YA KTN  Taita Taveta County and National Government collaborate in drug administration in the county By Jael Mboga | 11 hours ago By Philip Mwakio | 2 days ago By Benard Sanga | 3 days ago By Philip Mwakio | 4 days ago