Health CS Mutahi Kagwe says the curfew will remain in place for 30 more days. [File, Standard]  The government has extended the nationwide 10 pm to 4 am curfew for another 30 days, Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe says.  The extension will see the dusk to dawn curfew and ban on public gatherings remain in force until early November 2021.  While speaking to Community Health officials in Nairobi, Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe said that they had reached the decision to allow for the vaccination of as many Kenyans as possible.  This comes in the backdrop of the government aiming to have at least five million people vaccinated against Covid-19 by ‘Mashujaa Day’ (October 20, 2021)  Covid-19: 322 recover as 77 test positive in last 24 hours  Former guard-turned medic listed for global award   Covid-19: 308 recover, nine die as 91 test positive  Merck's antiviral pill shown to fight Covid-19 “We have decided to extend the containment measures by another 30 days because we have not been sufficiently vaccinated,” Kagwe said.  In March 2020, the government put in place a number of measures geared towards containing the spread of the virus in the country and protecting the population.  Since then, some of the measures have been relaxed, others have been done away with as others are still in place.  Further, the CS Kagwe urged the community health workers to help in sensitizing the public on the importance of the vaccine and conduct vaccination campaigns by creating awareness alongside their daily activities.  The war on the Covid-19 progressively shifted to vaccination and has seen the country receive doses of Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson as it aims to have over 10 million adults taking the jab by December 2021.  On Monday, October 4, the Ministry of Health officially started administering the Pfizer vaccine doses across the country.  Earlier today, Kenya received some 2.2 million special syringes which are to be used in the administration of Pfizer vaccines to maximize the dosage.   Ministry of Health receives 180,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine as a donation from Gov't of Greece  HEALTH WATCH: How Covid-19 misinformation worldwide has created panic by misleading masses  KEMRI makes a breakthrough in the fight against Covid-19 by developing a Virus Transport Media (VTM) By PSCU | 2 hours ago By Mireri Junior | 3 hours ago By Jacinta Mutura | 5 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 5 hours ago