Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru’s defection to UDA is a desperate and futile move. Worse still, it may not yield much for Deputy President William Ruto.  Contemporary Kirinyaga political leadership evolution provides a template on which to analyse what is likely to happen.  Waiguru zoomed into office riding on an intoxicating mix of her evidently good looks captured in her campaign slogan minji minji, impressive academic and civil service career and a party ticket with President Uhuru Kenyatta on it.  Kirinyaga is a wet well drained region, and a rich farming community is spoilt for choice of good foods between delicious green peas, beans, rice and maize. It was a mark of high rating for Waiguru to be branded with green peas, a local delicacy.  Preparing for elections must not look like readying for war  Politicians should avoid propaganda that fuels tribalism  Secrets of Raila's grand scheme to win State House battle in 2022  Ruto takes pride in mini-poll results, declares he will win Ukambani Candidate Waiguru was such that the incumbent, Mr Joseph Ndathi and Martha Karua found themselves no match for minji minji powerful campaign.  But some analysts contend that Waiguru win was made easy by “cultural sins” Martha had committed on her way to the 2017 ballot.  On Tuesday, Waiguru took the first step on the same route Martha walked into political wilderness. Her defection to UDA is likely to escalate the hotly contested race for Kirinyaga governorship. Already, Kirinyaga Woman Representative Purity Ngirichi has declared her interest and is currently rated highly.  Former Cabinet Minister Njeru Githae is also said to be eyeing the seat, and could give anyone a run for their money next year. Interior PS Karanja Kibicho has also been mentioned as a possible candidate, and he is no pushover.  Finally, Waiguru may have just set her political career on a slippery slope for being perceived to defy and betray President Kenyatta, who is still popular in Kirinyaga and entire Mt Kenya region.  Still, politics is always fluid and the once popular candidate Waiguru may easily defend her seat next year and surprise several pundits. The Kirinyaga gubernatorial contest will be one of the most interesting races in Kenya.  So, sit back and enjoy.  The writer is a political analyst   Government commissions water pan in Bute, Wajir county in a bid to improve livelihoods  How Nakurio girls secondary school in Turkana county struggles to access clean water  The national museum urges authors to write on Kenya's history for the sake of future generations By Edward Buri | 3 hours ago By Editorial | 3 hours ago By Gerald Lepariyo | 3 hours ago By Agumba Ndaloh | 3 hours ago