President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto at an event. [File, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto has vowed to build on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s legacy and the Big-Four Agenda.  Addressing the nation during the national celebrations at Wang’uru Stadium, Kirinyaga County, Ruto said that President Uhuru had steered the country to unprecedented transformation since they took over the Presidency.  “As your Deputy for the last nine years, I will make sure your legacy, the Big-Four Agenda together with the Bottom-up Economic Model will take the country to greater heights,” the DP said.  Said Ruto: “Your Excellency, we came here four years ago and this place was very muddy, today we have a world-class stadium because of your commitment to the development of our country”.  Diver celebrates Mashujaa Day retrieving bodies from River Isiukhu  President Uhuru’s Mashujaa Day full speech  Mashujaa Day marked with pomp and colour  Omanyala, Oliech, Kayange and Jepchirchir among sports heroes feted on Mashujaa Day The DP also said that he would work together with his political competitors to expand Uhuru’s legacy.  “My competitors and I will make sure we build on the legacy you have set. Your legacy has set the standard for your successors,” he added.  “We celebrate the many people who worked so hard and paid the huge price to be the nation we are today. Mr. President, we celebrate you as our leader, your place in the history of Kenya is secure and prominent as a transformational leader,” he concluded.  His statement charged the gathering at the stadium, showering him with claps and cheers as he paved way for the Head of State to take the podium.  Prior to his speech, the DP and his boss are engaged in a hearty chat. Ruto is seen speaking to Uhuru who appears to be happily explaining something to him.  He nods in agreement after which they fist-bump before the DP makes his way back to his seat.  Since their second term re-election, the duo’s relations have been frosty.  At one point the president dared his Deputy to resign from the government if he was displeased with its operations.  In response, would hear none of that saying he was duly elected to serve the people.   "Mimi niko ready, any moment," Ruto says he is ready to reconcile with Uhuru without any conditions  CS Matiang'i hits again as Deputy President William Ruto fights back | PRESS REVIEW  Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana By Phares Mutembei | 12 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 17 hours ago By Jacob Ngetich  | 17 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 19 hours ago