Daniel Mwangi’s mother, Florence Ngina (centre) at the burial. [Harun Wathari, Standard]  The family of Nakuru businessman Joseph Mahinda paid glowing tribute to his son, Daniel Mwangi, who was found dead at Lake Nakuru National Park on Saturday.   This was the first time the family spoke in public about Mwangi, after he was found dead in his car under unclear circumstances.  Businessman Daniel Mwangi was found dead in his car. [Harun Wathari, Standard]  Mwangi was the General Manager of Farmers World Limited, a family-owned agrochemicals retail chain with branches in Nakuru, Nairobi and Kiambu. The family also owns high-rise buildings in Nakuru and a hotel in Nairobi.   Two brothers, Nakuru county administration face off over prime property  Autopsy fails to reveal what killed Nakuru businessman’s son  Probe begins on death of businessman in Lake Nakuru National Park  Police close in on six-man gang that held family hostage Mahinda was overwhelmed by emotions as he eulogised his son, who he described as special and loving.   “He was and still remains a special child to me, not only because he was my only son, but because of how much he loved others,” said Mahinda at the burial on Thursday.  Daniel Mwangi was the General Manager of Farmers World Limited. [Harun Wathari, Standard]  Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui condoled with the family, while lauding them for their contribution in the growth of Nakuru town.   “Mwangi’s death is a blow not only to the county, but the business and sports fraternity. We are proud of this family for the great change they have brought into the lives of residents,” Kinyanjui said in a message read by chairman of Nakuru County Public Service Board, Charles Kimiri.     Tussle over the ownership of land in Ngongogeri, Nakuru threatening peace amongst disputing parties  A total of 24 unclaimed bodies to be buried in Nakuru upon expiry of a 21-day-period  Residents of Nakuru to wait longer before they can enjoy water supply from the Itare dam project By Benard Lusigi | 4 hours ago By Stephen Rutto | 4 hours ago By Rose Mukonyo | 5 hours ago By Steve Nzioka | 13 hours ago