Police in Ruiru, Kiambu County have gunned down a one-armed robber in a shootout at the Kihunguro area on Sunday at 3 am.  Police say the officers on patrol were responding to a report by two victims who had been robbed of a car and assorted valuables at Geo Lucky Apartments where they had parked their vehicle.  In a tweet by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI), the two-man gang attacked the victims (a couple) at around 3:40 am, robbed the duo before shooting in the air as they escaped to scare off neighbours.  “The male victim and his girlfriend had been robbed of three Samsung mobile phones make A71, S7 and S9, before the criminals drove away with their new Toyota Allion,” DCI tweet read in part.  Three suspected gangsters shot dead ‘after stealing car in Kayole’  Haji alleges plot to kick him out of office as row with Kinoti escalates  MCAs indict Elachi over irregular staff promotions, demand probe by EACC  Kananu snubs DCI summons over City Hall's Sh2.1bn tax arrears The gunshots prompted the police on patrol to respond to the situation but by the time they got to the scene, the robbers had disappeared, police say.  Minutes later, the police (on high alert) intercepted two men carrying a sack and when confronted, one of them started firing at the police officers.  This prompted a shootout between him and the police, who managed to gun him down. However, police did not state clearly what had happened to the deceased’s mate.  The cops recovered a firearm with seven rounds of ammunition, a Toyota Allion car, assorted motor vehicle parts stashed in a sack and a mobile phone.  This incident comes two days after three other armed robbers were gunned down in Githurai 45, hours after stealing a parked vehicle in Saika-Kayole.  Pursuit of the suspects who escaped in both incidents is still ongoing, as further investigations continue.   Polisi huko Ruiru wanamtafuta mwanamume mmoja anayeshukiwa kumdunga kwa kisu na kumuua mkewe  Bogus Degrees: DCI, EACC and IEBC to track culprits, team to hunt people with fake certificates  Former Governor Mike Sonko detained at DCI headquarters; he is to face robbery and assault charges By Betty Njeru | 1 day ago By Fidelis Kabunyi | 2 days ago By Gerald Nyele | 2 days ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 2 days ago