Transport CS James Macharia (R)  during celebrations to mark World Habitats Day in Olkaria, Naivasha.  [Dennis Kavisu, Standard]  Ferrying of cargo through the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) and rehabilitation of major roads has reduced air pollution by more than 20 per cent, the government has said.  Speaking during celebrations to mark World Habitats Day in Olkaria, Naivasha, yesterday, Transport CS James Macharia said climate change was real, as the country continued to record unpredictable weather patterns.  He said reduction in the number of trucks using the Mombasa-Nairobi highway since the SGR was introduced had helped reduce the pollution, adding that the government was committed to use of clean energy.  Macharia said the construction of 10,300kms nationwide had also helped improve use of fuel. “We have also introduced the Bus Rapid Transit system in Nairobi, which is environment friendly and very efficient in urban transport,” he said.  Place of children in climate action unoccupied  Nairobi Expressway to be commissioned in six months, says CS  Let’s just agree, Africa is a special case  Action our sure bet in mitigating, adapting to climate crisis The CS admitted that an ambitious affordable housing project had been affected by a court order stopping use of a levy fund.   “Despite the handicap, we are working closely with the private sector and every week we have upcoming affordable housing programmes,” he said.  Environment CS Keriako Tobiko termed existing drought, flooding, hot waves and rising water levels in lakes to climate change, adding the ministry was working closely with Transport and Housing one in mitigation. “We are working with other departments and agencies in addressing the environmental challenges,” he said.  Kengen MD Rebecca Miano said the power generation firm was committed to the production of clean energy through geothermal.   “We are making major strides in the production of clean and renewable energy and the move to hold this ceremony here is an indication of our commitment,” she said.     Climate Change: Kiambu county holds harvest festival, an initiative to beef up food security  Environmental Effects of Covid-19: A Discussion with Isaac Kalua Green  Masharti ya usafiri:Waziri wa uchukuzi James Macharia atoa mwelekeo kuhusu masharti mapya ya Usafiri By Stephen Rutto | 20 minutes ago By Standard Reporter | 41 minutes ago By Moses Nyamori | 1 hour ago By Martin Ndiema | 2 hours ago