Police in Bomet have launched a manhunt for nine suspects who escaped from police cell at Bomet Central police station in the wee hours of Monday morning, October 4.  Bomet Central Sub-county police Commander Musa Omari Imamai said the suspects, who were being held for various offences, escaped after cutting metallic grills at the backside of the cell.  Omari said, among those who escaped were four juveniles. Their ages were not immediately established.  “The suspects cut through the metallic grills of the cells and squeezed themselves out at around 4.20 am,” he said.  Caroline Kangogo's death elicits more questions than answers  Caroline Kangogo's body moved to Iten hospital morgue  Caroline Kangogo eludes DCI search teams  Carlos Ghosn's accused escape plotters face skeptical judge in extradition fight “Our officers immediately moved into action and arrested one of those suspects who escaped and is helping us with investigations,” he added.  Omari revealed that two escapees, arrested for theft, were to appear in court today to answer the charges.  Hei said the other two suspects were arrested over the weekend during an illicit brew crackdown.  The juveniles, Omari said, were arrested on assault offences and stealing, saying their cases were still under investigation.  The escapees are Clinton Nyakundi, Dominic Cheruiyot, Erick Bett, Victor Korir, Emmanuel Mutai, Clement Ng'eno, Titus Rotich, Vincent Kibet, and Victor Kipkirui.  Omari appealed to the public to provide any information that would lead to the arrest of the escapees.  “We are optimistic that the suspects will be brought to book and action taken against them for escaping from custody,” said the police boss.  The incident has revealed that adult and juvenile suspects share the same cell at the Bomet police station.  kronoh@standardmedia.co.ke    Tension remains high in Wajir a day after Somali forces staged a fight in Mandera  The most wanted man finally nabbed in Makueni  Rwandan genocide fugitives still on the run after arrest of one in DRC By Michael Saitoti | 8 hours ago By Kennedy K Gachuhi | 11 hours ago By Gilbert Kimutai | 20 hours ago By Kennedy Gachuhi | 1 day ago