Former Lugari MP Cyrus Jirongo (L), Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi. [Dennis Kavisu, Standard]  Baringo Senator Gideon Moi yesterday visited Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria in hospital.  Gideon posted on his Facebook page that Kuria was responding well to treatment and he was in his usual joyful and humorous mood.  “I am impressed by Hon Moses Kuria’s recovery process. He is in his usual joyful and humorous element, confident that he soon recovers fully and continues championing for the rights of his people,” the Kanu chairman posted on Facebook.  Gideon was accompanied by former Lugari MP Cyrus Jirongo to Karen Hospital in Nairobi where Kuria was admitted last week after he sustained a leg injury.  Mt Kenya targets three million new voters   Buoyed by Kanu delegates endorsement Gideon takes vote hunt to Rift Valley   Gideon Moi’s endorsement signifies return of good old Jogoo party  Gideon's entry into presidential election stirs up the Rift Valley Kuria thanked Gideon and other leaders who accompanied him during the visit.  “My brothers, Senator Gideon Moi and Hon Cyrus Jirongo, passed by to wish me quick recovery. Thank you,” Kuria said.  Later, Gideon paid a courtesy call to Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka.  “As a man with whom we share a common vision for this country, Kalonzo has been a critical player in building a secure and prosperous nation. We appreciate his service and dedication to the nation,” he tweeted.  Last week, Deputy President William Ruto and Kalonzo visited Kuria. Kuria was also visited by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua, National Youth Service Chairman Njuki Mwaniki and Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui.  Others were Narc-Kenya leader Martha Karua, Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata, Belgut MP Nelson Koech and Mumias East MP Ben Washiali.   Seneta Gideon Moi aelezea matumaini yake kuwa mahakama itatoa uamuzi bora kuhusu mchakato wa BBI  Seneta Gideon Moi awaonya wanakandarasi baada ya mradi wa ujenzi kukuwama | MBIU WIKENDI Sehemu ya 2  Senator Gideon Moi calls upon the Mt. Kenya region leaders to join the One Kenya Alliance By Eric Abuga | 1 hour ago By Abdimalik Hajir | 8 hours ago By James Wanzala | 8 hours ago By Patrick Beja | 8 hours ago