Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria  (pictured) is meeting current and former leaders seeking Usawa Kwa Wote party ticket for next year's General Election.  During a meeting with leaders from Coastal region yesterday, he promised to unite the Mt Kenya voters ahead of the polls.  Iria said he was ready to face ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto in the presidential contest.  “Usawa Kwa Wote party has the concerns of the nation and is ready to work towards the revival of the economy and improving living standards of the people,” said the governor.  IEBC to gazette the date of 2022 General Election on January 19  Facing Mount Elgon: Why Raila’s salvation shall come from the hills  New dawn as Kanu’s cockerel crows again  Raila Mt Kenya forays get Kieleweke support Mwangi Kamau, a Mombasa businessman and party coordinator said the Coast will support the Iria presidential campaign, as he has stood with the hawkers and empowered the dairy farmers.  Other Coast leaders present were Obadiah Mwangangi and Mzee Abdullahi Mohammed.  Mwangangi, a handcraft operator, said in the duration the second-term governor served at the Council of Governors as the vice-chairman, hawkers in the coastal area were spared the agony of being bundled out of the streets by the county government enforcement units.  “In his tour of the region, we listened to his vision and found it worthwhile as compared to others who are more interested in playing politics than lifting the living standard of the people,” said Mwangangi.  Earlier, he hit out at a section of Mt Kenya leaders for failing to support their own to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta.  “In history, Mt Kenya region since 1992 has been producing presidential candidates and it will be unfair that this time our people are out to sell the voters,” said Iria after he met opinion leaders from Nyeri and Laikipia counties.    bgikandi@standardmedia.co.ke      "Mimi niko ready, any moment," Ruto says he is ready to reconcile with Uhuru without any conditions  Pulpit Politics: ODM leader Raila Odinga welcomes move to ban politicians speaking in church  Raila Odinga is set to begin a 2-day in Western Kenya, he is to have consultative meetings By Josphat Thiong’o | 8 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 9 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 12 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 18 hours ago