DP William Ruto arrives at Ilporosar farm, the home of Kajiado East MP Peris Tobiko to the party. [Peterson Githaiga, Standard]  Deputy President William Ruto has said United Democratic Alliance (UDA) nominations for various elective slots would be democratic, free and fair.  He urged aspirants running on the party’s ticket to base their campaigns on development issues and outline their track records.  He took a swipe at his opponents eyeing the presidency in next year’s polls, saying they should stop waiting for endorsements in hotels and boardrooms and seek the people’s mandate by outlining their agenda.    Raila, OKA chiefs’ allies land plum State jobs  Mt Kenya is my stronghold, Ruto tells 2022 rivals  Musalia Mudavadi: I will end political 'use and dump'   Kenyans should know polls are top level recruitment process He said there would be no shortcuts during UDA nominations, adding that he won’t endorse any candidate.  Speaking at Ilposat farm in Kaputiei in Kajiado County where he led a section of UDA-affiliated legislators in welcoming Kajiado East MP Peris Tobiko to the party, Ruto said democracy is all about contests based on issues and development track record.  “As I welcome our sister Peris to UDA, I want to assure her that our party will embrace contests based on issues and development track record. We will work out a win-win situation and not a win-loss when election time comes,” he said.  “Politics is about interests. All those contesting are not angels who fell from heaven, they have served in various positions and therefore can be judged based on what they did. I call on all the aspirants to campaign on ideologies and whoever loses should support the winner. Everyone will be accommodated in government as they are all leaders in their own rights.”  He challenged his competitors to come up with their plans for Kenyans instead of wasting time on boardroom meetings.  “As Hustler movement, we have a plan and we have a candidate. Through the Hustler Nation, we have built a national party that is poised to form the next government,” said Ruto.  “Our plan is a bottom-up economic model; their only plan is to criticise our plan. When they delay to settle on a candidate, they should not discredit us.”  Ruto said the bottom-up economic model is about providing jobs besides providing cheap credit and a favourable environment for small-scale businesses, farmers and pastoralists.  Tobiko said she decided to join UDA because it was committed to addressing challenges facing ordinary Kenyans and expressed optimism that the party would exercise free and fair nominations in 2022.  “I am not a coward. What I want is just free and fair nominations. I don’t need a direct nomination,” said Tobiko, who is eyeing Kajiado governor seat currently being held by Joseph Ole Lenku.  “My family members have been asked to address press conferences because they have been intimidated. Cowards die many times before their death. But I am not a coward!”  The meeting was also attended by Senator Mary Seneta, MPs David Sankok, Janet Teiya, Liz Chelule, Jematia Sergon, Mohammed Ali, Sylvanus Osoro, Soipan Tuya, Beatrice Nkatha, Kimani Ichung’wa, Iman Falhada, Gathoni wa Muchomba and Rigathi Gachagua.  The MPs said UDA was a party with a national outlook that would accommodate all Kenyans irrespective of tribal, religious or social status.   Musalia Mudavadi is expected in Meru county in his heightened political activities to woo the region  "Mimi niko ready, any moment," Ruto says he is ready to reconcile with Uhuru without any conditions  CS Matiang'i hits again as Deputy President William Ruto fights back | PRESS REVIEW By Josphat Thiong’o | 3 hours ago By James Munyeki and Ndungu Gachane | 3 hours ago By Biketi Kikechi | 3 hours ago By Oscar Obonyo | 3 hours ago