Deputy President William Ruto has called on leaders to address issues facing ordinary Kenyans before engaging in power-sharing talks.  Speaking during a meeting with leaders from Emurua Dikirr and Kuria in Kilgoris, Narok County, Ruto said the needs of the people should not play as second fiddle to those of leaders.  Present in the meeting were MPs Johana Ngeno (Emurua Dikirr), Mathias Robi (Kuria West), Marwa Kitayama (Kuria East), Lemanken  Aramat (Narok East), Gabriel Tongoyo (Narok West), Saipan Tuya (Narok County), and deputy governors Evelyne Aruasa (Narok County) and Nelson Mahanga (Migori County).  Ruto asked his competitors to come up with an agenda for Kenyans. He questioned why his competitors were only interested in defeating him instead of selling their agenda to voters. He said what they are looking for as United Democratic Alliance (UDA) is greater than a contest with their competitors.    Raila Odinga rules out coalition with Ruto for 2022 polls  Raila rules out coalition with DP Ruto  A ten-car motorcade and quick photo session: Day DP Ruto was acting president  2022: The riddle of Mudavadi's role in emerging power games “Before we talk about sharing positions, we must first address the needs of the ordinary Kenyans,” he said.  Ruto said those who feel that the powers of the President in the current Constitution are inadequate, should allow those who can work within its provisions to transform the country. The constitution he added need not to be changed to have the country transformed.   “You do not need to change the Constitution to transform the country. Kenya can still be changed through a transformative agenda,” said Ruto.  Ruto said he is focused on instituting robust legal and financial policies to foster the growth of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs).  The DP said by supporting MSMEs, 80 per cent of Kenyans who rely on income from small businesses would be economically empowered. He pledged to make funds available to small business owners through their cooperative societies at low-interest rates to protect them from shylocks.    “Lack of proper infrastructure, legal regime and financial framework for small businesses has exposed entrepreneurs to tough working conditions and exploitative creditors who have limited their growth,” said Ruto.  He said such policies will be extended to farmers who would be given access to affordable loans, quality breeds, seeds and fertilizers to boost production and income. Mr Robi said the economy was adversely affected when the Building Bridges Initiative was made the country’s top priority.   Mr Tongoyo on his part said Narok residents will support Ruto because of his commitment to addressing the needs of ordinary citizens.   “We will support Ruto because he has demonstrated that he will uplift the lives of ordinary Kenyans,” he said.  Ms Soipan said they were keen on forming a government that will champion the interests of ordinary people.   “If we get a government that looks after the needs of hustlers, we will all be empowered,” said Ms Soipan.   "Mimi niko ready, any moment," Ruto says he is ready to reconcile with Uhuru without any conditions  CS Matiang'i hits again as Deputy President William Ruto fights back | PRESS REVIEW  Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana By Brian Otieno and Moses Nyamori | 45 minutes ago By Steve Mkawale | 55 minutes ago By Kamau Ngotho | 3 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 14 hours ago