The mother and her son when they left the County Education offices. [Harun Wathari, Standard]  A mother has sought the assistance of Nakuru County education officials to have her son allowed to carry homemade meals to school for his lunch.  The mother, who we cannot name to protect the identity of the minor, said her son's lunch box was thrown in a litter bin as a teacher deemed it "unhealthy."  She further claimed her 13-year-old son has been assaulted and discriminated against by the management of Lion Hill Primary School.  "My son was beaten by teachers, his lunch box thrown in the litter bin. The teacher tore the medical report that my son was given by the doctor," the mother said.  Flower producers to pay revenue in proposed law  Police net bhang worth Sh1.2 million in a Nakuru slum  Nakuru: Man charged with wife’s gruesome murder  Family pays tribute to businessman found dead in park The school headteacher, Mr Peter Matu, denied the claims that the said pupil was assaulted and discriminated against by teachers.  "The school management, the parent and local education officials have handled the matter. We have resolved the dispute that existed between the school and the parent. There was no issue about discrimination or assault as alleged," Matu said.  Senior Assistant Director of Education Fredrick Osewe confirmed to The Standard that the matter was handled by the Nakuru Town East sub-county education official conclusively.  "I am aware of the case. The matter was handled by my colleague at the sub-county level and the child will return to school without any conditions," Osewe said.  However, the child's mother said she was not satisfied with the way the matter was handled and felt the school might victimise him.  She said she was being forced to pay for meals at the school yet she can prepare meals at home for the child to carry to school for his lunch.   Tussle over the ownership of land in Ngongogeri, Nakuru threatening peace amongst disputing parties  A total of 24 unclaimed bodies to be buried in Nakuru upon expiry of a 21-day-period  Residents of Nakuru to wait longer before they can enjoy water supply from the Itare dam project By James Wanzala | 10 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 13 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 15 hours ago By Augustine Oduor | 15 hours ago