Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i. [Sammy Omingo, Standard]  Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has supported calls for Gusii community leaders to unite ahead of next year’s General Election.  Speaking when he attended a church service at Nyamesocho SDA Church in Nyaribari Masaba in Kisii County yesterday, Dr Matiang'i said he was fully behind President Uhuru Kenyatta’s bid to unite the country.  He said it was a great honour to the Gusii community for him to be elevated by the president to coordinate all government ministries.    Voter registration in Nyanza going on at snail's pace  IEBC 2022 and technology  2022: Why a Raila Odinga presidency seems to please the universe  Mt Kenya pick: OKA, Raila to wait a little longer “Many people are asking me where I stand politically. What they should know is that where President Uhuru stands, I am just next to him and now he is working with former Prime Minister Raila Odinga and I listen to their direction over many issues,” said Matiang’i.  He said Kenyans would not support a leader who would not guarantee them security and stability in the next General Election and that currently, they were analysing all those seeking senior leadership positions.  The CS called on Kenyans who have not collected their national ID cards to go for them to enable them register as voters and participate in the next General Election.  He steered clear of the impeachment motion being fronted by Nyali MP Mohammed Ali even as political leaders accompanying him said it was dead on arrival.  Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati said Matiang’i was being fought for stopping corruption cartels from stealing from Kenyans.  “Matiangi is the Gusii community kingpin, the direction he takes is the one we will follow. Right now, he is performing assignments given to him by President Uhuru Kenyatta perfectly,” said Arati.  Nyamira Woman Representative Jerusha Momanyi said the Gusii community was solidly behind Matiang’i and those fighting him were fighting the community.  Momanyi said the CS had done the community proud and that he was focused on the job given to him by President Kenyatta who had full confidence in him.  Nakuru Town West MP Samuel Arama said the Gusii community should unite in order to boost its bargaining power in next year's elections.  Arama said Matiang’i commands respect among all Kenyans and it would be unfair that some people from his community are joining outsiders fighting him.  “Matiang’i has been fought many times and has emerged triumphant. It is clear that he is being fought by the Tanga Tanga group but they are headed nowhere,” he said.   Exploring the preparedness and the key timeliness of the IEBC to conduct the 2022 General Elections  IEBC launches 2020-2024 Strategic Plan ahead of the 2022 general elections  War pitting the Executive and the Judiciary has escalated after the 2017 general elections By Winfrey Owino | 2 hours ago By Iman Masud | 2 hours ago By Martin Ndiema | 3 hours ago By David Odongo | 3 hours ago