The mechanism of Vojin Kusic's rotating house is seen in Srbac, Bosnia and Herzegovina. [Reuters]  Seeking to please his wife who had wished for a more diversified view from their family house, a Bosnian self-taught innovator has built a rotating house, allowing her to watch a rising sun in one moment and passers-by in the next.  "I've got tired of her complaints and frequent refurbishing of our family house and I said: I'll build you a rotating house so you can spin it as you wish," Vojin Kusic, 72, told Reuters, standing in front of his new house that attracts the attention of visitors.  Situated on a fertile plain in northern Bosnia near the town of Srbac, the house spins around a 7-metre axis designed by Kusic, with the view of cornfields and farmland changing to forests and the river at a desired speed.  The project took six years to finish. [Reuters]  Land prices in Nairobi dip by 27 per cent  Mombasa County ordered to make public Sh6b housing contract  Race for the skies grinds to a halt in Nairobi’s high-rise hub  Mwananchi Credit feted for new loan product "The house can make a full circle for 24 hours when it's at the slowest speed, while at the fastest spinning it can make a full circle in 22 seconds," Kusic said.  His wife did not wish to comment on the new house.  Kusic said he was inspired by Serbian-American inventors Nikola Tesla and Mihajlo Pupin, and that coming from a poor family without the possibility of a good education had forced him to look for ways to make things by himself.  "This is not an innovation, it only requires will and knowledge, and I had enough time and knowledge," he said, adding that he had built the house completely by himself.  Vojin Kusic starts his rotating house in Srbac, Bosnia and Herzegovina. [Reuters]  The project took six years to finish, except time off for a hospital stay due to a heart condition. The house is more resistant to earthquake damage than stationary houses, he said.  "I asked doctors to try to prolong (my life) for at least a year because I have this project in my head, and... nobody will know how to complete it."   Property Report: Real Estate Market records Mild dip amid COVID-19 pandemic  Developers fail to deliver housing deal  Siku ya kuhamasisha umma dhidi ya kujitoa uhai imeadhimishwa leo mjini Embu By Reuters | 1 day ago By Reuters | 3 days ago By Reuters | 4 days ago By Reuters | 7 days ago