One Kenya Alliance principals Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka, Gideon Moi and Moses Wetangula in Nairobi on May 18, 2021. [Dennis Kavisu, Standard]  One Kenya Alliance (OKA) principals today begin a two-day tour of Western to popularise the nascent outfit.  The OKA principals Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Kanu chairman Gideon Moi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetangúla are expected to meet delegates drawn from the Western counties before addressing rallies in Kakamega town, Khayega market and Chavakali.  On Saturday, the principals will take the OKA campaigns to Chavakali and later in Emuhaya before heading to Thika on Sunday. They plan to attend a church service before holding a rally at Githurai.  Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala said the principals will soon unveil timelines on picking the alliance flagbearer.  Why Raila, Ruto hardliners have rolled back their fiery tongues  Wooing ex-Nasa leaders, Uhuru deal might help Ruto in 2022 race  Mudavadi under pressure to join Raila, but trust issues won’t fade  Gideon condoles with family of former AFC boss  “One Kenya Alliance has been taking time to plan. We have come up with a masterpiece strategy. We have lined up a series of meetings that will culminate into us unveiling our presidential candidate,” said Malala.  OKA's agenda is revival, resuscitation, and growth of the economy, as well as building unity of purpose and tolerance among Kenyans.  “I want to assure our supporters in western Kenya and other parts of the country that we are on course. We are not going to leave anything to chance,” Malala said.  This comes barely a week after Deputy President William Ruto and ODM Chief Raila Odinga pitched tent in Western.  ANC leaders have since downplayed the influence of Ruto and Raila – the perceived front runners in the presidential race.  ANC deputy party leader Ayub Savula said that Mudavadi was the man to watch in the region as he commands a huge following.  “We have been in this game with our opponents and we know where and when to fix our game. Let them put their eye on what is going to happen this weekend. They will then understand what we are saying that western Kenya is fully behind Musalia Mudavadi,” Savula said.  Malala dismissed suggestions that the 2022 elections will be a two-horse race.  “In a weeks-time, the two-horse narrative that is being peddled will fizzle out completely and Kenyans will start feeling the presence of OKA in all corners of this country,” he assured.  He said they are focused on ensuring unity in the country and assured supporters that OKA will go to the next General Election a united team.  “We want to tell Kenyans that we are focused on uniting this country as OKA and the reassurance that no OKA principal has joined Raila’s or Ruto’s camp will be demonstrated by our leaders,” said Malala.   Seneta Gideon Moi aelezea matumaini yake kuwa mahakama itatoa uamuzi bora kuhusu mchakato wa BBI  Seneta Gideon Moi awaonya wanakandarasi baada ya mradi wa ujenzi kukuwama | MBIU WIKENDI Sehemu ya 2  Senator Gideon Moi calls upon the Mt. Kenya region leaders to join the One Kenya Alliance By Betty Njeru | 10 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 1 day ago By Julius Chepkwony | 1 day ago By Robert Menza | 1 day ago