A family in Kirindo village in Ugenya, Siaya County, is seeking justice after their kin was killed on Saturday evening.  Two unknown people armed with sharp machetes attacked the old couple at their home around 7 pm.  According to the family spokesman Bill Amoth, the grandson of the 73-year-old deceased Maurice Otako, a gang raided their home as their father and mother were about to have dinner.  He said the attackers must have been hiding within the house without the knowledge of the victims.  He said it is still a mystery how they got into the house unnoticed.  Man kills neighbour for mocking his intimacy skills  Wandayi pulls out of Siaya 2022 gubernatorial race  Women boat owners in Siaya gaining economic independence  Siaya women who shunned ‘sex for fish’  "My grandmother Ann Otako had just brought food from the kitchen to the main house where they were to have dinner. As she was going back to the kitchen to collect more food, the attackers hit her on the head with a machete and she fell," said Amoth.  He told The Standard that her grandmother stood up, ran and hid under the table.  "They then moved to the sitting room and started hitting my grandfather on the head. The attackers later ran off," said Amoth.  Neighbours who responded to the distress call, took the two to a hospital in Sega. Otako died on arrival at the Siaya County Referral, where he had been taken for further treatment. His wife is admitted to a hospital in Sega.  Yesterday, the family said they suspect the attack was an act of revenge from a group of people they had reported to the police after they were attacked last year.  "We strongly feel this is a revenge attack. Part of that gang had been arrested and charged in court. We want justice for our kin," he said.  Ugenya OCPD Bernard Mugocho confirmed the incident and noted that the deceased sustained several deep cuts on the head.  Mr Mugocho said the attackers are unknown and still at large. "My officers are conducting investigations.”   Gem of Siaya: Colonial chief who could flog parents for not taking their children to school  Focus on Cornel Rasanga, the first elect Governor of Siaya County | Person of Interest  Siaya county assembly becomes the first to unanimously pass BBI constitutional amendment bill 2020 By James Omoro | 9 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 2 days ago By Stanley Ongwae | 2 days ago By Stanley Ongwae | 3 days ago