Siaya Senator James Orengo.   Orange Democratic Movement (ODM)leaders in Siaya have expressed confidence in the Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission (IEBC) as constituted and allayed fears of voter rigging in the General election.  They called on their supporters to enlist as voters in the ongoing mass registration to ensure they have enough votes for ODM leader Raila Odinga to clinch the presidency.  Senator James Orengo, Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo, Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo and Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi also asked the people to ensure they confirm their voter registration centres.  "We have put enough measures in place to curb rigging. We want the winner who will be declared to accept and those who will lose to accept as well," said Orengo during a harambee at the Agoro Yombe Primary School. He was with Amollo and Odhiambo.  Civil society groups move to court over revocation of campaign spending limits  Let IEBC work with more partners to register voters  IEBC seeks raft of legal changes to enhance credibility of poll results  Polls agency directs political parties to submit nomination rules by Monday Wandayi said preparation for election must be above board. "We have full confidence in IEBC as constituted. We expect it to conduct elections in a transparent manner. IEBC should not engage in any more sideshow but focus on delivering free and fair elections. This election is no doubt that Raila will become the fifth President," he said at Ambira, Ugunja.  He termed next year's polls historic, saying it was time to reward Kenyans who have been consistent in the fight for change.   Pulpit Politics: ODM leader Raila Odinga welcomes move to ban politicians speaking in church  ODM’s attempt to oust Chebukati from IEBC elicits mixed reactions | INSIDE POLITICS WITH BEN KITILI  Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens By Winfrey Owino | 1 hour ago By Ndungu Gachane | 4 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 5 hours ago By Micah Sali | 5 hours ago