Detectives in Moyale on Sunday night arrested two members of a criminal syndicate that has been stealing motorbikes in various parts of the country before ferrying them to the town.  Main suspect Isaack Hassan and Mohammed Ibrahim both aged 24 were nabbed as detectives pursued a gang behind motorbike theft syndicates in the country.  “Detectives have cracked a motorbike theft syndicate believed to be behind the increased disappearance of the popular mode of transport and source of livelihood in various parts of the country,” said DCI.  During the raid, police recovered over 350 motorcycle logbooks, assorted sales agreements, motorcycle number plates and assorted delivery notes were recovered from Hassan’s house in Moyale town.  Police arrest nanny suspected of murdering employer’s son  Detectives arrest man masquerading as magistrate  Woman passes out after taking the drink she spiked  Memory card dispute leaves two dead According to detectives, the two were planning to escape police dragnet before they were arrested in the chief suspect’s house.  “In the well planned and executed operation that incorporated city-based detectives and their Moyale counterparts, the suspects were apprehended as they planned to escape the police dragnet.”  Their arrest followed a raid conducted at a store in Nairobi’s Eastleigh two weeks ago by Starehe based detectives, where dozens of new motorbikes stolen from a warehouse in Industrial Area were recovered.  The discovery followed the disappearance of a motorbike in western Kenya, that was tracked down to the Eastleigh store where other used motorcycles were also recovered.  Detectives have established that motorbikes stolen from various parts of the country find their way to the upper eastern and northeastern counties where they sold cheaply to bandits.  Others also find their way into countries neighbouring those counties.  The suspects are currently are booked at Moyale Police station, being processed for arraignment.   23-year-old woman, Hafsa Mohamed, who went missing in Eastleigh has been rescued by police in Kayole  Hafsa Aokolewa: Msichana aliyekuwa ametekwa nyara Eastleigh amepatikana Kayole  Bogus Degrees: DCI, EACC and IEBC to track culprits, team to hunt people with fake certificates By Nyambega Gisesa and Emmanuel Too | 40 minutes ago By Emmanuel Too | 40 minutes ago By Kamau Muthoni | 40 minutes ago By Kamau Muthoni | 40 minutes ago