Nairobi County Majority Whip, Paul Kados. [Courtesy]  Jubilee Party moved to de-whip Riruta MCA James Kiriba over his ploy to have the deed of transfer agreement that saw City Hall cede four functions to Nairobi Metropolitan Service (NMS) revoked.  Jubilee yesterday communicated the decision to have the "rebel" MCA discharged from all committees henceforth for going against the party position on the matter.  This is after Kiriba on Tuesday tabled a motion calling for formation of a transitional oversight committee to instigate the reversal of the four transferred functions; Health, Transport, Planning and Public Works as well as utilities and ancillary services from the Mohamed Badi-led NMS to City Hall.  He argued that with the term of the NMS coming to an end in March 2022, there was need for the assembly to initiate the process of reversing the transferred functions in anticipation of the end of the deed of transfer.  Uhuru and Central parks to close for major renovation   President Uhuru opens Kibra Level 3 Hospital  Uhuru Park, Central Park will soon be a no go zone for public  MPs plan to counter UDA in Mt Kenya by telling success stories The MCA proposed that the transitional committee should comprise the Leader of Majority, Leader of Minority, Majority Whip, Minority Whip and six chairpersons on behalf of the committees of the transferred functions.  Mike Sonko and then-Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa signed the agreement. [PSCU]  It would also include three other members representing the youth, women and persons living with disability from among MCAs.     But in a rejoinder, Jubilee through Majority Whip Paul Kados termed Kiriba’s actions as an affront to the party position.  “…By this letter, notice is given of the discharge of Hon James Kiriba, MCA from all committees of the House he is a member of and is currently serving,” read a letter from Kados and addressed to the office of the Speaker.  Kados said the MCA had ignored advice from the party to refrain from sponsoring a motion of such magnitude.  “The subject action is contemplated against Hon James Kiriba for flouting standing orders and the constitution of the Jubilee Party with respect to the sponsorship of party motions and the pursuit of such business,” it said.  In February 2020, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and then-Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa signed an agreement to transfer four functions from the county government to the national government.    A section of Jubilee leaders held a crisis meeting on Friday following dismal performance in polls  Coalition Jitters: DP Ruto faults Jubilee and ODM coalition, says hustlers will back UDA  Mwisho wa Jubilee? Kuna tetesi kuwa Rais Uhuru ataunga mkono NASA na wala si Naibu Rais Ruto By Boniface Gikandi | 5 hours ago By Judah Ben-Hur | 9 hours ago By Brian Otieno | 12 hours ago By Josphat Thiong'o | 18 hours ago