A scuffle in a Nairobi hotel is likely to cost the co-founders of a Kenyan fintech company after a video clip of the incident went viral.  The clip, which was released on Saturday, shows two men in a scuffle with two women in the lobby of Nairobi’s Ole Sereni Hotel.  The men in the video, Edward Ndichu and Paul Ndichu, are twin brothers and are co-founders of fintech company, Wapi Pay.  The women are unidentified and one of the men can be seen trying to vandalie a car's side-mirror.  The incident has caused early-stage venture capital fund Kepple Africa Ventures announce plans to pull out its investment from their firm.  Ndichus’ viral video incident, what we know so far  Ndichu brothers respond to viral confrontation video  Koffi back 4 years after he was kicked out of Kenya  3 years for officer who killed varsity student, lied about it When it first caught the attention of social media users, there was uproar as people condemned the brothers and showed an outpouring of support for the women.  The Association of Fintechs in Kenya (Afik), a body of professionals within the fintech space and established to have a single platform for innovation in Kenya, also, yesterday afternoon, announced that Edward, who is a board member, had stepped down “pending investigations into the matter.”  “The board takes this opportunity to state that it regrets the current circumstances and does not in any way condone gender-based violence or violence of any kind,” Afik said in a statement.  Wapi Pay, which was founded in 2019, is based in Singapore and headquartered in Kenya.  Its focus is the Africa-Asia remittance corridor where it intends “to reduce (traders’) remittance fees of up to 15 per cent of the amount”, which come with a waiting period of up to five days.  “Traders are exposed to the high risk of consistent reversals due to unmatched instructions," the fintech’s website reads.  "With Wapi Pay the cost reduces to below three per cent and same day payout."  The incident comes even as the fintech seemed to be gaining traction in the East, with investors showing their interest in pumping resources to support its growth.  Earlier in the year, Wapi Pay had announced that it had raised $2.2 million in pre-seed funding to scale up global payments and remittances between Africa and Asia.  The investors, it said, included EchoVC and China-based global fund MSA Capital and Kepple Africa Ventures to join existing investors Future Hub, Gobi Ventures and Transsion Holding.  The fintech, which has a presence in China, Singapore, Indonesia, Japan, Thailand, Philippines, Malaysia, India, Taiwan and Vietnam?, earlier in the year wrote that it targets to process $500 million in remittances by the end of 2022, grow the number of registered suppliers and beneficiaries in Asia to 100,000 and sign up at least 500,000 merchants, traders and businesses in Africa.  But with a key investor now announcing intentions to leave, Wapi Pay may face an uphill task in raising crucial funding.  A statement from Wapi Pay released yesterday absolved the two co-founders from blame, with part of it reading that “the allegations and video currently being shared on social media, albeit horrific and regrettable, do not depict the true events that transpired that night.”  The statement further said that “Paul and Eddie got involved in an attempt to neutralise a confrontation between two women and to defend themselves from certain aggressors.”  It is yet to be seen what the reactions of other partners of Wapi Pay will be, or how the matter involving the co-founders will be settled.  Kepple African Ventures has an investment portfolio of 96 companies in 11 countries.   ptheuri@standardmedia.co.ke  By Lynn Kolongei | 19 seconds ago By Moses Nyamori | 4 hours ago By Grace Ng'ang'a | 4 hours ago By Roselyne Obala | 6 hours ago