I was privileged to attend a meeting in which religious leaders from diverse faiths united to make one call; that humans must do what God commands; be good stewards of the environment.  The discussions therein made it sound like all were reading from the same script. It rang a bell: All humans need the environment.  “Then God said, “Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over the livestock and over all the earth and over every creeping thing...,” the Bible says in Genesis 1:26.  He (man) is later commanded not to pollute the land (with blood) in Numbers 35:33.  Youtube to pay popular content creators Sh1 million  Three aspirants seek to dislodge Kuti as race for governor takes shape  The GoDown: Moving arts into the future  Politicians must not hoodwink voters using the pulpit Islam equally recognises that natural resources do not only belong to humans, but to all living things, hence the need for conservation. The Quran, in Surat Al A’raf, verse 85, says: “And do no mischief on the earth after it has been set in order: that will be best for you, if ye have Faith”.  Hinduism, like Islam, encourages responsible use of natural resources. A sense of emphasis on conservation and proper waste management is clear among the Buddhists as well.  In our ethnic groups, there are beliefs attached to several natural resources. Some communities even spell curses for killing of certain creatures or felling trees; the Mugumo tree among Kenya’s Agikuyu being an example.  But today, being a human is an embarrassment. We have sunk so low in our quest for money and forgotten nature’s goodness. We do not care if destruction of natural habitats will eventually make it impossible for us to even breathe.  There is hope in the holy places, though. In spite of our diverse religious affiliations, we are united when suffering. Our attitudes towards climate change can therefore be influenced to cause action to increase climate change adaptation and mitigation, knowing that humans need nature, and that the reverse is a fallacy.  Using our (religious) numerical strengths to push for responsible action by corporate bodies will yield better results than we have had until the 25th Committee of Parties’ negotiations by UN.  Wikipedia puts Christians at approximately 2.5 billion of world’s 7.8 billion population by 2020. Islam had 1.9 billion, Hinduism 1.35 billion and Buddhism 535 million at the time.  As Nobel Peace laureate Wangari Maathai always said of the hummingbird, every little effort to save the planet is key.  We speak of kindness, respect, empathy and several other common human values. This also happens to be the common message in our diverse places of worship. Let us tell it for environment too. Now.   Lynet is a Quality Assurance Editor at The Standard Group.   Matokeo ya KCSE yatatangazwa yakiwa tayari, Mgodi wa Mauti, BBI ilipita Bungeni | MBIU YA KTN  Amani Wajir: Wazee wadegodia waashiria kwamba mkutano kati yao na jamii ya Marehan ulikuwa wa amani  "God bless Kenya" Kenya Air force Aircrafts display during 57th Madaraka Day celebrations By Editorial | 1 day ago By Demas Kiprono | 1 day ago By Caroline Nyamweya | 1 day ago By Moses Kilonzo | 1 day ago