Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya tells the over 200 recruits to maintain a positive image in the line of duty. [File, Standard]  Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya has warned newly recruited Assistant County Commissioners (ACCs) against having sexual relations with their juniors and civilians.  Natembeya asked the over 200 recruits, who are fresh graduates, to ensure they maintain a positive image in the line of duty.   “Conduct your social life properly. If you go sleeping around with people in the villages, you will be in trouble as a person and bring shame to the government,” said Natembeya.  His sentiments come barely a week after police rescued a chief in Londiani, who was almost lynched by an irate mob in Londiani after he was caught in the act with a married woman.  Man’s meddling family costs him his three-year marriage  Government deploys 200 new assistant county commissioners in Rift Valley   George Natembeya faults leaders for ignoring plight of the locals  Men fear, worry to death about 'bed scores' “If you are an ACC and you sleep with a chief, it is equal to elevating that chief to your level. They will have reduced you to the level of a chief,” he said.  “Such a chief will not respect his equals and those in ranks between you and them. They will have the audacity to insubordinate their immediate seniors boasting that they share a bed with an ACC,” said Natembeya.  The ACCs will among other privileges have government vehicles at their disposal, which Natembeya warned them against abusing for personal use.  “Some of the drivers are very handsome. Don’t be tempted to ask them to accompany you for drinks, then, you end up sleeping together,” he said.  He added that any sexual relationships with government officers will be unearthed, asking them to be careful.  “For civilians, it will be a great achievement. They will run around the villages telling everyone every detail of what they have done with you. But this won’t be the case with a government official,” he said.  He urged them not to lose themselves in the comfort of government facilities such as houses and vehicles, and instead focus on career development.  “You have landed a well-paying job while you are very young. Don’t forget about your life. Invest for your future. Learn to plan for your future early,” said Natembeya.  With the rising number of corruption cases in the country, the commissioner warned them against being involved in any corrupt deals.  “Sometimes, you will take a bullet for the government before senior government officers come to make subsequent responses. Do not be part of a corrupt system if you find any,” said Natembeya.   George Natembeya awaonya wachochezi wa Transmara  Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya declares 4pm-7am curfew in Transmara  Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya: Day-1 of curfew is peaceful By Daniel Chege | 9 hours ago By Daniel Chege | 9 hours ago By Lynn Kolongei | 10 hours ago By James Munyeki | 22 hours ago