ODM Leader Raila Odinga campaigns in Kibichoi, Kiambu County on Thursday, 21st, October 2021. [Samson Wire, Standard].  ODM leader Raila Odinga yesterday continued with his charm offensive to win over Mt Kenya support in his quest for the presidency.  Yesterday, he was in President Uhuru Kenyatta's Kiambu County backyard where he sold his 'Azimio La Umoja' agenda as he rallied residents to enlist in the ongoing mass voter registration.  Raila declared that he had mastered the art of climbing the mountain.  A section of Kiambu residents endorsed Raila to succeed Uhuru, saying it was their turn to pay back by voting for him.  Raila, BBI team oppose prayer by five professors  Professionals from three counties back Raila's State House dream  Mukami Kimathi homage: Raila retraces father’s steps 50 years later   Ruto, Raila use Mashujaa Day fete to reach out to voters   The ODM leader, who held a series of meetings, said he would capitalise on his experience as prime minister to spur the country to new heights of development.  He said the economy should be growing at more than 10 per cent and his focus will be to lead the country to the list of developed nations.  "We will grow the agricultural sector, which is the backbone of this nation, through modern technology; the industries and ease of doing business. We want to open our country for all Kenyans to have freedom to do business anywhere without any threats," said Raila.  "We will not have any internally displaced persons, those who where were chased from their homes or their land taken will be resettled. We want peace as the founding fathers envisaged."  The ODM leader defended his Sh6,000 monthly stipend to jobless youths and poor families if he forms the next government and dismissed Deputy President William Ruto's hustler narrative.  "We will bring the biggest social protection within the African continent. Those jobless will get Sh6,000 monthly, this not just a say, it is a pledge that will be fulfilled. They say this is just propaganda and there is no money, I know where to get the money and a promise is a debt," he said.  He pegged his campaign agenda on five Us (Utu, Undugu, Umoja, Usawa and Uzalishaji).  Raila recounted selfless acts like when his father Jaramogi Oginga Odinga declined to take up the presidency when founding father Jomo Kenyatta was in prison and his Kibaki Tosha slogan, saying time was ripe to pay back the "good deeds".  Kieni MP Kanini Kega said the community should resolve to stand with the ODM leader and turn out in large numbers to vote for him next year.  "He has worked hand in hand with one of our own in this government. We want to pay the debt that we owe Raila by making him the fifth president of Kenya. Let us hold his hand in the next government," said Kega.  Raila donated a modern X-ray machine and other medical equipment to Kigumo Hospital.  He toured Gathiru-Ini coffee factory, Kibichoi shopping centre and Ruiru where he opened an ODM office. The ODM leader also made a stop over at Kirigiti and Kiambu town.  Public Service and Gender CAS Rachel Shebesh said they were following the voice of President Kenyatta after the Handshake that brought inclusivity and peace in the country.   Pulpit Politics: ODM leader Raila Odinga welcomes move to ban politicians speaking in church  Raila Odinga is set to begin a 2-day in Western Kenya, he is to have consultative meetings  Raila comes up with a platform which he says will harmonize major issues affecting ordinary citizens By Paul Ogemba | 1 hour ago By Kamau Muthoni | 2 hours ago By Reuters | 10 hours ago By Moses Nyamori | 10 hours ago