Deputy President William Ruto has said all Kenyans must fully participate in the political decisions of the country.  He said ordinary Kenyans had been left out of the country’s political conversation for long, with issues touching on prominent and wealthy personalities taking centre-stage.  “This means that most of the people’s aspirations were neglected. That is why poverty is still a major issue in our country to date,” he said.  To reverse this trend, Ruto said, it was time the poor were given the political and economic attention that they deserve.    Mwangi wa Iria meets opinion leaders in his pursuit for presidency in 2022  So President Uhuru and DP Ruto are enemies? Tell me another lie  DP William Ruto: Go to tycoons, let me meet hustlers  Ruto, Raila and the economy  “Some people have not understood that ordinary Kenyans, too, can plan their own political destiny and succeed,” he added.  He said through the revolutionary Bottom-Up Economic Development Plan, ordinary Kenyans will be given the optimum consideration that will change their fortunes.  The Deputy President noted that the new economic plan is the only answer to tame excessive borrowing and boost tax collection in Kenya.   He was speaking today at his Karen Residence in Nairobi County when he met grassroots and religious leaders from Machakos County.  Present were MPs Victor Munyaka, Vincent Musyoka, Nimrod Mbai, the United Democratic Alliance Chairman Johnson Muthama and many MCAs.  “We are now keen on being at the decision table that will form the next Government; this party (UDA) will be the political outfit of choice in Ukambani,” said Munyaka, the Machakos Town MP.   "Mimi niko ready, any moment," Ruto says he is ready to reconcile with Uhuru without any conditions  CS Matiang'i hits again as Deputy President William Ruto fights back | PRESS REVIEW  Ziara ya Ruto Uganda: Wabunge wanaomtetea watoa cheche baada ya kuzuiliwa kusafiri hapo jana By Elvince Joshua | 1 hour ago By Lynn Kolongei | 2 hours ago By Julius Chepkwony | 4 hours ago By Brian Okoth | 4 hours ago