Four suspects linked to the lynching of four elderly women in Marani, Kisii County, will spend ten more days in police custody.  Kisii Senior Resident Magistrate Paul Mutui allowed an application by the prosecution to detain the four awaiting post mortem results and the mental assessment report of the suspects.  The prosecution had also sought more time to record statements from witnesses and the suspects.  Amos Nyakundi Ondieki, Chrispine Ogeto Mokua, Peter Angwenyi Kwanga and Ronald Ombati Onyonka were arrested separately on Monday and spent the night at Kisii Police Station.  Investigations officer Corporal Zepedeo Waeire had told the court that he required 14 days to conduct further investigations into the killings.  Masten Wanjala's stepfather speaks   Githurai man 'stabs mother to death, injures twin brother'  Athlete Agnes Tirop's autopsy underway at Iten  Who bewitched us? Queries as killing of elderly people persists But Lawyer Shaffin Kaba, who represented the accused, opposed the application, saying the prosecution team acted on suspicion.  “There is no charge sheet, nor has the prosecution shown any compelling reasons to hold the four in police custody. There were no allegations of witness interference. They have a right under Article 149 (h) to be released on reasonable bond terms,” Kaba said.  However, the magistrate pointed out that the matter was of public interest.  “Considering the gravity of the matter, I allow the prosecution ten days to conduct their investigations. Murder is a serious offence, and we must allow the prosecution to prove their case,” Mutui said.  The four will be detained at Rioma Police station. The matter will be mentioned on October 29, 2021.  Police arrested the four suspects after a video of the four victims being lynched went viral on social media.  The four victims were 60-year-old Jemima Mironga, 53-year-old Agnes Ototo, Sigara Onkware, 62, and Sindege Mayaka, 85.  Two other relatives of one of the deceased are nursing injuries they sustained as they tried to protect their kin.    eabuga@standatrdmedia.co.ke      Murder Mystery: FBI joins investigations into the disappearance & murder of Bashir Mohammed  Police detain a couple and their son for allegedly beating their 15-year-old daughter to death  Nyeri Murder Probe: Nyeri tycoon accused of killing his own son over domestic quarrel between them By Eric Abuga | 13 hours ago By Nathan Ochunge | 1 day ago By Erick Abuga | 1 day ago By Jael Mboga | 2 days ago