The public will have two weeks to send their views. EBK Chief Executive Margaret Ogai (C). [David Gichuru, Standard]  The Engineers Board of Kenya (EBK) is still pushing to set minimum prices for engineering services despite the competition watchdog warning it of fines and prosecution.  The move looks set to put engineers at loggerheads with the Competition Authority of Kenya (CAK), which recently said fixing prices amounts to killing competition and making services expensive.  EBK is however pushing on with the move by issuing a gazette notice inviting the public to give comments on the proposed Engineers (Scale of Fees for Professional Engineering Services) Rules, 2021.    Here are some fun facts about chocolate  CAK cautions industry bodies on price fixing  Protect local industries from competition  Ezra Chiloba pledges friendly rules for up-to-date tech “This is to request all persons likely to be affected by the proposed rules to submit written comments and views...to be considered and incorporated in the said Rules,” said EBK Chief Executive Margaret Ogai.  The public will have two weeks to send their views on the proposed changes which EBK says will help to prevent price undercutting among professional engineers.  The engineer’s body argued that setting price floors will ensure quality engineering services, safety and welfare of the public.  “(The rules will) address the challenge of collapsing of buildings and other infrastructure as the public will be aware of the professional engineering services and the importance of engaging professional engineers at every stage of the project,” said Ms Ogai.  But CAK has argued that such a move, also being pursued by the Institute of Certified Public Accountants (ICPAK) infringes on the Competition Act, 2012 and could attract a penalty of up to 10 per cent of an entity’s preceding year’s gross annual turnover, a fine of Sh10 million and up to five years in jail.  Section 21 of the CAK Act prohibits entities from setting up agreements that could prevent, distort or lessen competition unless they obtain an exemption from CAK.  ICPAK and other professional bodies including the Association of Kenya Reinsurers, Association of Kenya Insurers will be closely watching EBK’s move. Previous attempts to determine minimum fees saw the re-insurers’ body pay a Sh721,000 fine.   Newspaper Review:Scramble for BBI Cake, Referendum will cost SH14B, IEBC says,Jurists reject Kassait  Construction Engineers caused drama on Thika Super Highway  CAK will remain under the leadership of Francis Wangusi, a judge directed on Friday By Antony Gitonga | 4 hours ago By Macharia Kamau | 2 days ago By Patrick Alushula | 3 days ago By Frankline Sunday | 4 days ago