Wananchi seated at the Wang'uru Stadium before the arrival of President Uhuru Kenyatta. [PSCU]  With little crowds and a short programme, the Mashujaa Day fete at Wang'uru ran like clockwork.  Guests started streaming into the Wang'uru Stadium in Mwea as early as 6.00 am under strict vetting.  President Uhuru Kenyatta takes a bow for the Kenya Armed Forces flag. [PSCU]  Those attending were required to have an invitation card to access the stadium refurbished at Sh350 million.  Diver celebrates Mashujaa Day retrieving bodies from River Isiukhu  President Uhuru’s Mashujaa Day full speech  Omanyala, Oliech, Kayange and Jepchirchir among sports heroes feted on Mashujaa Day  Malawian President pays tribute to shared history with Kenya Under the Covid-19 regulations and drawing from the experience of the post-Madaraka Day 2021 at Kisumu, which experienced a worrying spike in infections, only 3,000 guests were allowed into the stadium.  A police chopper. [Elvis Ogina,standard]  The seats were adequately spaced, and most of them remained unoccupied.  At Gate Six, uniformed Recce Squad officers manning the gates kicked out two plainclothes police officers who arrived in the company of a uniformed colleague, despite showing their job cards. The uniformed colleague was allowed into the stadium, but those in civilian remained outside.  There was a huge squad of entertainment troupes in two larger tents and a performance stage erected in the middle of the stadium.  Deputy President William Ruto, Rachel Ruto, Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka and his counterpart of the Parliament Justin Muturi at Wanguru Stadium in Kirinyaga after Mashujaa Day Celebrations. Kibata Kihu/Standard  Members of the organised choirs sat with gospel musicians such as Martin wa Janet and Susan Kimunyi and secular counterparts such as DJ Faxto, Sammy Muchoki, Joyce wa Mama, Joseph Kariuki and Peter Kigia wa Esther.  Malawi President Lazarus Chakwera and First Lady Monica Chakwera. [PSCU]  When AP Utawala Band played “Stella", a white donned Akorino gospel group stood up to dance.  And when it started drizzling, journalists scampered to a nearby tent to take shelter, with some leaving their equipment unmanned. However, the rain stopped, and the dark cloud that had covered the sky cleared.  ODM leader Raila Odinga and his daughter Winnie Odinga. [Kibata Kihu,Standard]  A printed official programme was part of the grandiose Kirinyaga PR dream, with an intricate overview of one of Kenya's smallest counties by landmass and population. The county covers about 1,478.1 square kilometres or about 2.5 per cent of Kenya.  The county population stands at 610,411 persons, with a population density of 413 persons per kilometre.  According to the programme, Mwea rice production is 11,400 metric tonnes valued at Sh9.69 billion. Kirinyaga is the largest tomato producer in the country, producing 63,000 tonnes on about 3,500 hectares valued at Sh1.6 billion annually.  Guests arrival  The entry of Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga was notable.  Politicians Cyrus Jirongo, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetangula. [Kibata Kihu,Standard]  He retreated to the presidential reception room for a few minutes before taking his seat.  At 11.20 am, Deputy President William Ruto, flanked by his wife Rachael Ruto, arrived and ascended the stairs.  Nominated Members of the Kirinyaga County Assembly at the Wang'uru stadium. [Jane Mugambi,Standard]  He greeted the first few governors and cabinet secretaries on the first row, who included Muthomi Njuki and Dr Fred Matiang'i using the Indian Namaste sign.  He then gave a fist bump to Speakers Justin Muturi (NA) and Ken Lusaka (Senate).  Baringo Senator Gideon Moi. [Elvis Ogina,Standard]  When it came to Raila, Musalia Mudavadi and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, it was all handshake.  Ruto almost immediately disembarked to receive Malawian President Lazurus Chakwera and First Lady Monicah Chakwera.  Kisumu Governor Anya'ng Nyong'o. [Kibata Kihu,Standard]  President Uhuru Kenyatta arrived at 11.30 am.  As he ascended the stairs, his greetings were more animated. Elbow bumps with most of those at the front row and warm hugs for Chakwera and Raila. A more lingering exchange with Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua.  Kirinyaga Women Rep Wangui Ngirici arrives. [Jane Mugambi,Standard]  There were anxious moments such as when his press corps blocked his path twice as he greeted the front row.  As usual, President Uhuru enjoyed the musical entertainment. But he missed most of it except the gospel presentation at the end, which he even saluted.  Guests arrive at the Wang'uru stadium. [Elvis Ogina,Standard]  And as the ceremony came to a close, guests went home.  Kirinyaga Anglican Bishop Joseph Kibucwa, who led in the opening prayers, had asked that their pockets are filled so that they could purchase rice, tomatoes and other produce from the farms within the county.  President Uhuru Kenyatta inspects a guard of honor during Mashujaa Day celebrations at Wang'uru International Stadium in Mwea, Kirinyaga county, October 20, 2021. [Mose Sammy, Standard]  Additional reporting by Ndungu Gachane.   REGGAE IS BACK: The final BBI report unveiled in Kisii and received by President Uhuru and Raila  Government launches Huduma Namba Card as Kenya marks Mashujaa day today  Celebrating Mashujaa: The National Celebrations held in Kisii County By Micah Sali | 1 hour ago By Jael Mboga and Pkemoi Ng’enoh | 2 hours ago By Winfrey Owino | 2 hours ago By Uhuru Kenyatta | 3 hours ago