A family in Kirindo, Siaya County, is seeking justice after their kin was killed on Saturday evening.  Two unknown people armed with sharp machetes attacked the couple at their home around 7pm.  According to Bill Amoth, the grandson of the 73-year-old Maurice Otako, a gang raided their home as the couple were about to have dinner.  He said the attackers must have been hiding within the house without the knowledge of the victims.  He said it is still a mystery how they got into the house unnoticed.  Siaya family calls for justice after their kin is killed in an attack  Man kills neighbour for mocking his intimacy skills  Wandayi pulls out of Siaya 2022 gubernatorial race  Women boat owners in Siaya gaining economic independence   "My grandmother Ann Otako had just brought food from the kitchen to the main house where they were to have dinner. As she was going back to the kitchen to collect more food, the attackers hit her on the head with a machete and she fell," said Amoth.  He told The Standard that her grandmother stood up, ran and hid under the table.  "They then moved to the sitting room and started hitting my grandfather on the head. The attackers later ran away," said Amoth.  Neighbours who responded to the distress call, took the two to a hospital in Sega. Otako died on arrival at the Siaya County Referral, where he had been taken for further treatment. His wife is admitted at Sega.  Yesterday, the family said they suspect the attack was revenge from a group of people they had reported to the police after they were attacked last year.  "Part of that gang had been arrested and charged in court. We want justice for our kin," he said.  Ugenya OCPD Bernard Mugocho said the man sustained several deep cuts on the head.   Gem of Siaya: Colonial chief who could flog parents for not taking their children to school  Focus on Cornel Rasanga, the first elect Governor of Siaya County | Person of Interest  Siaya county assembly becomes the first to unanimously pass BBI constitutional amendment bill 2020 By Olivia Odhiambo | 20 hours ago By James Omoro | 21 hours ago By Harold Odhiambo | 2 days ago By Stanley Ongwae | 3 days ago