Muslim scholars from Egypt are on a countrywide campaign against violent extremism among youth.  The scholars facilitated by the Egyptian Embassy have held sessions in Lamu, Malindi and Mombasa in the campaign that has taken more than a month.  Several Kenyan Muslim scholars have joined in the drive to discourage youth from engaging in terrorism. Youth, particularly the jobless, the scholars said, have been targeted for violent extremism.  Yesterday, the scholars advised youth at the Coast to shun extremism teachings used to shed blood by people seeking to gain from chaos.  The Egyptian Embassy, in partnership with Masjid Shibu in Mombasa, held a religious teaching session to urge youth to denounce violent extremism, saying it was against Islam.  Huduma Namba database to contain citizenship details   Taskforce to counter violent extremism launched in Nairobi  Violent extremism blossoming in prisons   Kenya unbowed three years after Westgate Mall deadly terror attack The embassy has been facilitating the teachings dubbed 'Renouncing Violence and Extremism in Islam' in mosques countrywide.    Sheikh Attia Abdrabou from Al-Azhar Al-Sharif University, who was the main speaker, said Islam did not condone extremism.  Sheikh Abdrabou urged Muslims to use Islam to provide impetus for the human pursuit of knowledge in science. "Islam is a peaceful religion that preaches love and forgiveness. The youths should shun extremism and embrace love and respect to the human race," Abdrabou said at the Masjid Shibu.  He said it was only through science that Covid-19 would be defeated, and urged Muslim faithful to follow set protocols to stem the spread of the disease.  Shibu mosque administrator and Madrasa teacher Mohamed Shebah urged youth not to allow themselves to be misled by those who want to make money from chaos.  He said Islam should help counter-terrorism to ensure peace and growth in society. “Islam is not a religion of extremism and it does not encourage bloodshed. So I encourage youth to come out openly and disregard any extremism teachings,” said Shebah.  He urged youth to prepare to take over from the older generation and preach peace to ensure continuity of the human race. [Joackim Bwana]  “When we live in peace, the business will thrive, children will go to school without fear and everyone will be at ease. But if acts of terrorism are entertained, then we are bound to fail in several aspects of life,” said Shebah.  He said Islam seeks to ensure everyone is bound to live and operate in a peaceful environment without fear.  Shebah said the children in the community learn and emulate what they see and grow up with and is important to impart peace and love in them.  “When children see people and communities fighting, it does not give them a true picture of what life is about. They need to grow harmoniously and respect each other,” said Shebah.  He thanked the Egypt embassy for organizing and sponsoring the event to teach youths against extremism.  “We want to live in peace, not in pieces. When violence erupts or a bomb explodes, it does not discriminate. So our youths should embrace the Islam teaching and preach love and peace,” said Shebah.   Security organs in Meru county meet to counter violent extremism in the region By Philip Mwakio | 2 hours ago By Renson Mnyamwezi | 19 hours ago By Jael Mboga | 23 hours ago By Philip Mwakio | 2 days ago