Police say the suspects had stolen a Toyota Probox in Kayole, Nairobi on Thursday, October 28. [File, Standard]  Three suspected gangsters were on Friday morning shot dead in Githurai after allegedly stealing a private vehicle in Kayole, Nairobi.  The three died during a 3:30am shoot-out with police officers on the Mwiki-Githurai 45 road.  One of the suspects escaped towards Mwiki with gunshot wounds, police said.  It is alleged the four stole a white Toyota Probox of registration plate KBZ 113S in Saika area in Kayole, Nairobi on Thursday night.  Police hunt for man suspected of killing mother in Mwiki  Githurai man 'stabs mother to death, injures twin brother'  Ex-Stars captain Otieno enjoying new life as a coach  Kenya vs Mali at 4pm: Harambee Stars head coach Firat makes four changes to Kenya line  Police have since established that the vehicle belongs to one Francis Gatambi, a resident of Kayole.  “The owner was contacted, and he confirmed that the vehicle was missing from where he’d parked it on Thursday night,” a police report filed at the Githurai Mwiki Police Station under the OB Number 4/29/10/2021 says.  Authorities say the suspects had “tampered with the ignition, and used an improvised metallic rod to start the car”.  A home-made pistol was recovered in the vehicle after the shoot-out.  Police say the suspects defied stop orders on the Mwiki-Githurai road at 3am, prompting a chase and subsequent exchange of gunfire.  Bodies of the three suspected gangsters were moved to the City Mortuary. No identification documents were found on them, police said.  Ruiru Sub-County Directorate of Criminal Investigations Officer (DCIO) Justus Ombati says a probe into the incident has been launched, with a search mounted for the suspect who escaped.   23-year-old woman, Hafsa Mohamed, who went missing in Eastleigh has been rescued by police in Kayole  Polisi huko Ruiru wanamtafuta mwanamume mmoja anayeshukiwa kumdunga kwa kisu na kumuua mkewe  New GBV call Centre launched in Kayole Estate, Nairobi, it will cater for victims of violence By Gerald Nyele | 12 hours ago By Lydiah Nyawira | 12 hours ago By Muriithi Mugo | 1 day ago By Phares Mutembei | 3 days ago